════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Alma 55, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-05-02) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:2):
     EARLIER: "And he said: Behold, I will not exchange prisoners with Ammoron save he will withdraw his purpose, as I have stated in my epistle, for I will not gran..."
     LATER:   "And he said, Behold, I will not exchange prisoners with Ammoron, save he will withdraw his purpose, as I have stated in my epistle; for I will not gra..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:4):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that when Moroni had said these words, he caused that a search should be made among his men that perhaps he might find a man w..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that when Moroni had said these words, he caused that a search should be made among his men, that perhaps he might find a man ..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:6):
     EARLIER: "Now Moroni caused that Laman and a small number of his men should go forth unto the guards which were over the Nephites."
     LATER:   "Now Moroni caused that Laman and a small number of his men, should go forth unto the guard which were over the Nephites."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:7):
     EARLIER: "Now the Nephites were guarded in the city of Gid; therefore Moroni caused that Laman and a small number of men which was appointed to go with him shou..."
     LATER:   "Now the Nephites were guarded in the city of Gid; therefore Moroni caused that Laman and a small number of men which was appointed to go with him ."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:9):
     EARLIER: "Now when the Lamanites heard these words, they received him with joy. And they said unto him: Give us of your wine that we may drink. We are glad that..."
     LATER:   "Now when the Lamanites heard these words, they received him with joy.--And they said unto him, Give us of your wine, that we may drink; we are glad th..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:17):
     EARLIER: "yea, even to their women and all those of their children, as many as were able to use a weapon of war. When Moroni had armed all those prisoners--and ..."
     LATER:   "yea, even to their women, and all those of their children, as many as were able to use a weapon of war; when Moroni had armed all those prisoners. And..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:18):
     EARLIER: "but had they awoke the Lamanites--behold, they were drunken--and the Nephites could have slain them;"
     LATER:   "But had they awoke the Lamanites, behold they were drunken, and the Nephites could have slain them."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:19):
     EARLIER: "but behold, this was not the desire of Moroni; he did not delight in murder or bloodshed, but he delighted in the saving his people from destruction; ..."
     LATER:   "But behold this was not the desire of Moroni. He did not delight in murder or bloodshed; but he delighted in the saving of his people from destruction..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:20):
     EARLIER: "but he had obtained his desire, for he had armed those prisoners of the Nephites which were within the walls of the city and had gave them power to ga..."
     LATER:   "But he had obtained his desires; for he had armed those prisoners of the Nephites which were within the wall of the city, and had gave them power to g..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:21):
     EARLIER: "and then he caused his men which were with him to withdraw a pace from them and surround the armies of the Lamanites."
     LATER:   "and then he caused the men which were with him, to withdraw a pace from them, and surround the armies of the Lamanites."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:22):
     EARLIER: "Now behold, this was done in the nighttime, so that when the Lamanites awoke in the morning, they beheld that they were surrounded by the Nephites wit..."
     LATER:   "Now behold, this was done in the night time, so that when the Lamanites awoke in the morning, they beheld that they were surrounded by the Nephites wi..."

  12. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:23):
     EARLIER: "And thus they saw that the Nephites had power over them. And in these circumstances they found that it were not expedient that they should fight with ..."
     LATER:   "And thus they saw that the Nephites had power over them; and in these circumstances they found it was not expedient that they should fight with the Ne..."

  13. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:25):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that he did cause the Lamanites which he had taken prisoners that they should commence a labor in strengthening the fortifications..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that he did cause the Lamanites which he had taken prisoners, that they should commence a labor in strengthening the fortification..."

  14. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:26):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that when he had fortified the city Gid according to his desires, he caused that his prisoners should be taken to the city Bountif..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that when he had fortified the city of Gid, according to his desires, he caused that his prisoners be taken to the city Bountiful...."

  15. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:29):
     EARLIER: "Many times did the Lamanites attempt to encircle them about by night, but in these attempts they did lose many prisoners."
     LATER:   "Many time did the Lamanites attempt to encircle them about by night, but these attempts they did lose many prisoners."

  16. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:30):
     EARLIER: "And many times did they attempt to administer of their wine to the Nephites, that they might destroy them with poison or with drunkenness."
     LATER:   "--And many times did they atempt to administer of their wine to the Nephites, that they might destroy them with poison or with drunkenness."

  17. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:31):
     EARLIER: "But behold, the Nephites were not slow to remember the Lord their God in this their times of affliction. They could not be taken in their snares. Yea,..."
     LATER:   "But behold, the Nephites were not slow to remember the Lord their God, in this their times of affliction. They could not be taken in their snares; yea..."

  18. WORD CHANGE (Alma 55:33):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that it was expedient for Moroni to make preparations to attackt the city Morionton. For behold, the Lamanites had by their la..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that it was expedient for Moroni to make preparations to attack the city of Morianton.--For behold, the Lamanites had, by thei..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

Alma 55:1 Now it came to pass that when Moroni received this epistle, he was more angry, because he knew that Ammoron had a perfect knowledge of his fraud; yea, he knew that Ammoron knew that it was not a just cause that had caused him to wage war against the people of Nephi.

Alma 55:2 And he said, Behold, I will not exchange prisoners with Ammoron, save he will withdraw his purpose, as I have stated in my epistle; for I will not grant unto him that he shall have any more power than what he hath got.

Alma 55:3 Behold, I know the place where the Lamanites doth guard my people, which they have taken prisoners; and as Ammoron would not grant unto me mine epistle, behold, I will give unto him according to my words; yea, I will seek death among them, until they shall sue for peace.

Alma 55:4 And now it came to pass that when Moroni had said these words, he caused that a search should be made among his men, that perhaps he might find a man which was a descendant of Laman among them.

Alma 55:5 And it came to pass that they found one, whose name was Laman; and he was one of the servants of the king which was murdered by Amalickiah.

Alma 55:6 Now Moroni caused that Laman and a small number of his men, should go forth unto the guard which were over the Nephites.

Alma 55:7 Now the Nephites were guarded in the city of Gid; therefore Moroni caused that Laman and a small number of men which was appointed to go with him .

Alma 55:8 And it came to pass that when it was evening, Laman went to the guards which were over the Nephites, and behold, they saw him coming, and they hailed him. But he saith unto them, Fear not. Behold, I am a Lamanite. Behold, we have escaped from the Nephites, and they sleepeth; and behold, we have took of their wine, and brought with us.

Alma 55:9 Now when the Lamanites heard these words, they received him with joy.--And they said unto him, Give us of your wine, that we may drink; we are glad that ye have thus taken wine with you, for we are weary.

Alma 55:10 But Laman saith unto them, Let us keep of our wine till we go against the Nephites to battle. But this saying only made them more desirous to drink of the wine.

Alma 55:11 --For, said they, We are weary; therefore let us take of the wine, and by and by we shall receive wine for our rations, which will strengthen us to go against the Nephites.

Alma 55:12 And Laman saith unto them, You may do according to your desires.

Alma 55:13 And it came to pass that they did take of the wine freely, and it was pleasant to their taste; therefore they took of it more freely; and it was strong, having been prepared in its strength.

Alma 55:14 And it came to pass they did drink and were merry, and by and by they were all drunken.

Alma 55:15 Now when Laman and his men saw that they were all drunken, and were in a deep sleep, they returned to Moroni, and told him all the things that had happened.

Alma 55:16 And now this was according to the design of Moroni. And Moroni had prepared his men with weapons of war; and he went to the city of Gid, while the Lamanites were in a deep sleep, and drunken, and cast in the weapons of war in unto the prisoners, insomuch that they were all armed;

Alma 55:17 yea, even to their women, and all those of their children, as many as were able to use a weapon of war; when Moroni had armed all those prisoners. And all those things were done in a profound silence.

Alma 55:18 But had they awoke the Lamanites, behold they were drunken, and the Nephites could have slain them.

Alma 55:19 But behold this was not the desire of Moroni. He did not delight in murder or bloodshed; but he delighted in the saving of his people from destruction; and for this cause he might not bring upon him injustice, he would not fall upon the Lamanites and destroy them in their drunkennes.

Alma 55:20 But he had obtained his desires; for he had armed those prisoners of the Nephites which were within the wall of the city, and had gave them power to gain possession of those parts which were within the walls;

Alma 55:21 and then he caused the men which were with him, to withdraw a pace from them, and surround the armies of the Lamanites.

Alma 55:22 Now behold, this was done in the night time, so that when the Lamanites awoke in the morning, they beheld that they were surrounded by the Nephites without, and that their prisoners were armed within.

Alma 55:23 And thus they saw that the Nephites had power over them; and in these circumstances they found it was not expedient that they should fight with the Nephites; therefore their Chief Captains demanded their weapons of war, and they brought them forth, and cast them at the feet of the Nephites, pleading for mercy.

Alma 55:24 Now behold, this was the desire of Moroni. He took them prisoners of war, and took possession of the city, and caused that all prisoners should be liberated, which were Nephites; and they did join the army of Moroni, and were a great strength to his army.

Alma 55:25 And it came to pass that he did cause the Lamanites which he had taken prisoners, that they should commence a labor in strengthening the fortifications round about the city of Gid.

Alma 55:26 And it came to pass that when he had fortified the city of Gid, according to his desires, he caused that his prisoners be taken to the city Bountiful. And he also guarded that city with an exceeding strong force.

Alma 55:27 And it came to pass that they did, notwithstanding all the intrigues of the Lamanites, keep and protect all the prisoners which they had taken, and also maintain all the ground and the advantage which they had retaken.

Alma 55:28 And it came to pass that the Nephites began again to be victorious, and to reclaim their rights and privileges.

Alma 55:29 Many time did the Lamanites attempt to encircle them about by night, but these attempts they did lose many prisoners.

Alma 55:30 --And many times did they atempt to administer of their wine to the Nephites, that they might destroy them with poison or with drunkenness.

Alma 55:31 But behold, the Nephites were not slow to remember the Lord their God, in this their times of affliction. They could not be taken in their snares; yea, they would not partake of their wine; yea, they would not take of wine, save they had firstly given to some of the Lamanite prisoners.

Alma 55:32 And they were thus cautious, that no poison should be administered among them; for if their wine would poison a Lamanite, it would also poison a Nephite; and thus they did try all their liquors.

Alma 55:33 And now it came to pass that it was expedient for Moroni to make preparations to attack the city of Morianton.--For behold, the Lamanites had, by their labors, fortified the city of Morionton until it had become an exceeding strong hold;

Alma 55:34 and they were continually bringing new forces into that city, and also new supplies of provisions.

Alma 55:35 And thus ended the twenty and ninth year of the reign of the Judges over the people of Nephi.
