════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Ether 4, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-05-26) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Ether 4:3):
     EARLIER: "And now after that they have all dwindled in unbelief and there is none save it be the Lamanites--and they have rejected the gospel of Christ--therefo..."
     LATER:   "And now, after that, they have all dwindled in unbelief, and there is none, save it be the Lamanites, and they have rejected the Gospel of Christ; the..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Ether 4:5):
     EARLIER: "Wherefore the Lord hath commanded me to write them and I have wrote them. And he commanded me that I should seal them up. And he also hath commanded t..."
     LATER:   "wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me to write them; and I have wrote them. And he commanded me that I should seal them up; and he also hath commanded..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Ether 4:8):
     EARLIER: "And he that will contend against the word of the Lord, let him be accursed. And he that shall deny these things, let him be accursed. For unto them wi..."
     LATER:   "And he that will contend against the word of the Lord, let him be accursed; and he that shall deny these things, saith Jesus Christ, for I am he which..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Ether 4:15):
     EARLIER: "Behold, when ye shall rend that veil of unbelief which doth cause you to remain in your awful state of wickedness and hardness of heart and blindness ..."
     LATER:   "Behold, when ye shall rend that veil of unbelief which doth cause you to remain in your awful state of wickedness, and hardness of heart, and blindnes..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

Ether 4:1 And the Lord commanded the brother of Jared to go down out of the mount from the presence of the Lord, and write the things which he had seen: and they were forbidden to come unto the children of men, until after that he should be lifted up upon the cross: and for this cause did king Benjamin keep them, that they should not come unto the world until after Christ shew himself unto his people.

Ether 4:2 And after that Christ truly had shewed himself unto his people, he commanded that they should be made manifest.

Ether 4:3 And now, after that, they have all dwindled in unbelief, and there is none, save it be the Lamanites, and they have rejected the Gospel of Christ; therefore I am commanded that I should hide them up again in the earth.

Ether 4:4 Behold, I have written upon these plates the very things which the brother of Jared saw; and there never was greater things made manifest, than that which was made manifest unto the brother of Jared;

Ether 4:5 wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me to write them; and I have wrote them. And he commanded me that I should seal them up; and he also hath commanded that I should seal up the interpretation thereof; wherefore I have sealed up the interpreters. according to the commandments of the Lord.

Ether 4:6 For the Lord saith unto me, They shall not go forth unto the Gentiles until the day that they shall repent of their iniquity, and become clean before the Lord;

Ether 4:7 and in that day that they shall exercise faith in me, saith the Lord, even as the brother of Jared did, that they may become sanctified in me, then will I manifest unto them the things which the brother of Jared saw, even to the unfolding unto them all my revelations, saith Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Father of the heavens and of the earth, and all things that in them is.

Ether 4:8 And he that will contend against the word of the Lord, let him be accursed; and he that shall deny these things, saith Jesus Christ, for I am he which speaketh;

Ether 4:9 and at my command the heavens are opened and are shut; and at my word, the earth shall shake; and at my command the inhabitants thereof shall pass away, even so as by fire;

Ether 4:10 and he that believeth not my words, believeth not my disciples; and if it so be that I do not speak, judge ye: for ye shall know that it is I that speaketh, at the last day.

Ether 4:11 But he that believeth these things which I have spoken, him will I visit with the manifestations of my spirit, and he shall know and bear record. For because of my spirit, he shall know that these things are true: for it persuadeth men to do good;

Ether 4:12 and whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do good, is of me: for good cometh of none, save it be of me. I am the same that leadeth men to all good: he that will not believe my words, will not believe me, will not believe the Father which sent me. For behold, I am the Father, I am the light, and the life, and the truth of the world.

Ether 4:13 Come unto me, O ye Gentiles, and I will shew unto you the greater things, the knowledge which is hid up because of unbelief.

Ether 4:14 Come unto me, O ye house of Israel, and it shall be made manifest unto you how great things the father hath laid up for you, from the foundation of the world; and it hath not come unto you, because of the unbelief.

Ether 4:15 Behold, when ye shall rend that veil of unbelief which doth cause you to remain in your awful state of wickedness, and hardness of heart, and blindness of mind, then shall the great and marvellous things which have been hid up from the foundation of the world from you; yea, when ye shall call upon the father in my name, with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, then shall ye know that the Father hath remembered the covenant which he made unto your fathers, O house of Israel;

Ether 4:16 and then shall my revelations which I have caused to be written by my servant John, be unfolded in the eyes of all the people. Remember, when ye see these things, ye shall know that the time is at hand that they shall be made manifest in very deed;

Ether 4:17 therefore, when ye shall receive this record, ye may know that the work of the Father has commenced upon all the face of the land.

Ether 4:18 Therefore, repent all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me, and believe in my Gospel, and be baptized in my name: for he that believeth, and is baptized, shall be saved; but he that believeth not, shall be damned: and signs shall follow them that believe in my name.

Ether 4:19 And blessed is he that is found faithful unto my name, at the last day: for they shall be lifted up to dwell in the kingdom prepared for them from the foundation of the world. And behold, it is I that hath spoken it. Amen.
