════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Alma 40, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-04-26) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Alma 40:2):
     EARLIER: "Behold, I say unto you that there is no resurrection--or I would say in other words that this mortal does not put on immortality, this corruption does..."
     LATER:   "--Behold, I say unto you, that there is no resurrection; or I would say, in other words, that this mortal does not put on immortality; thus corruption..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Alma 40:3):
     EARLIER: "Behold, he bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead. But behold, my son, the resurrection is not yet. Now I unfold unto you a mystery. Neverthele..."
     LATER:   "Behold, he bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead. But behold, my son, the resurrection is not yet. Now I unfold unto you a mystery; neverthele..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Alma 40:4):
     EARLIER: "Behold, there is a time appointed that all shall come forth from the dead. Now when this time cometh, no one knows; but God knoweth the time which is ..."
     LATER:   "Behold, there is a time appointed that shall come forth from the dead.--Now when this time cometh, no one knows; but God knoweth the time which is app..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Alma 40:5):
     EARLIER: "Now whether there shall be one time or a second time or a third time that men shall come forth from the dead, it mattereth not, for God knoweth all th..."
     LATER:   "Now whether there shall be one time, or a second time, or a third time, that men shall come forth from the dead, it mattereth not; for God knoweth all..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Alma 40:8):
     EARLIER: "Now whether there is more than one time appointed for men to rise, it mattereth not. For all do not die at once, and this mattereth not. All is as one..."
     LATER:   "--Now whether there is more than one time appointed for men to rise, it mattereth not; for all do not die at once; and this mattereth not; all is as o..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Alma 40:12):
     EARLIER: "And then shall it come to pass that the spirits of those which are righteous are received into a state of happiness, which is called paradise, a state..."
     LATER:   "And then shall it come to pass that the spirits of those which are righteous, are received into a state of happiness, which is called paradise; a stat..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Alma 40:13):
     EARLIER: "And then shall it come to pass that the spirits of the wicked, yea, which are evil--for behold, they have no part nor portion of the Spirit of the Lor..."
     LATER:   "And then shall it come to pass, that the spirits of the wicked, yea, which are evil; for behold, they have no part nor portion of the spirit of the Lo..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Alma 40:14):
     EARLIER: "Now this is the state of the souls of the wicked--yea, in darkness and a state of awful fearful looking for of the fiery indignation of the wrath of G..."
     LATER:   "Now this is the state of the souls of the wicked; yea, in darkness, and a state of awful, fearful looking for of the fiery indignation of the wrath of..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Alma 40:16):
     EARLIER: "And behold, again it hath been spoken that there is a first resurrection--a resurrection of all those which have been or which are or which shall be, ..."
     LATER:   "And behold, again it hath been spoken, that there is a first resurrection; a resurrection of all those which have been, or which are, or which shall b..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Alma 40:23):
     EARLIER: "The soul shall be restored to the body and the body to the soul. Yea, and every limb and joint shall be restored to its body--yea, even a hair of thei..."
     LATER:   "The soul shall be restored to the body, and the body to the soul; yea, and every limb and joint shall be restored to the soul; yea, and every limb and..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Alma 40:26):
     EARLIER: "But behold, an awful death cometh upon the wicked, for they die as to things pertaining to things of righteousness; for they are unclean, and no uncle..."
     LATER:   "But behold, an awful death cometh upon the wicked; for they die as to things pertaining to things of righteousness; for they are unclean, and no uncle..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

Alma 40:1 Now my son, here is somewhat more I would say unto thee; for I perceive that thy mind is worried concerning the resurrection of the dead.

Alma 40:2 --Behold, I say unto you, that there is no resurrection; or I would say, in other words, that this mortal does not put on immortality; thus corruption does not put on incorruption, until after the coming of Christ.

Alma 40:3 Behold, he bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead. But behold, my son, the resurrection is not yet. Now I unfold unto you a mystery; nevertheless, there are many mysteries, which are kept, that no one knoweth them save God himself. But I shew unto you one thing, which I have inquired diligently of God, that I might know; that is, concerning the resurrection.

Alma 40:4 Behold, there is a time appointed that shall come forth from the dead.--Now when this time cometh, no one knows; but God knoweth the time which is appointed.

Alma 40:5 Now whether there shall be one time, or a second time, or a third time, that men shall come forth from the dead, it mattereth not; for God knoweth all these things; and it sufficeth me to know that this is the case; that there is a time appointed that all shall rise from the dead.

Alma 40:6 Now there must needs be a space betwixt the time of death, and the time of the resurrection.

Alma 40:7 And now I would inquire what becometh of the souls of men, from this time of death, to the time appointed for the resurrection?

Alma 40:8 --Now whether there is more than one time appointed for men to rise, it mattereth not; for all do not die at once; and this mattereth not; all is as one day, with God; and time only is measured unto men;

Alma 40:9 therefore there is a time appointed unto men, that they shall rise from the dead; and there is a space between the time of death and the resurrection. And now concerning this space of time. What becometh of the souls of men, is the thing which I have inquired diligently of the Lord to know; and this is the thing of which I do know.

Alma 40:10 --And when the time cometh when all shall rise, then shall they know that God knoweth all the times which are appointed unto man.

Alma 40:11 Now concerning the state of the soul between death and the resurrection. Behold, it hath been made known unto me by an angel, that the spirits of all men, as soon as they are departed from this mortal body; yea, the spirits of all men, whether they be good or evil, are taken home to that God who gave them life.

Alma 40:12 And then shall it come to pass that the spirits of those which are righteous, are received into a state of happiness, which is called paradise; a state of rest; a state of peace, where they shall rest from all their troubles, and from all care, and sorrow, &c.

Alma 40:13 And then shall it come to pass, that the spirits of the wicked, yea, which are evil; for behold, they have no part nor portion of the spirit of the Lord; for behold, they chose evil works, rather than good; therefore the spirit of the Devil did enter into them, and take possession of their house; and these shall be cast out into outer darkness; they shall be weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth; and this because of their own iniquity; being led captive by the will of the Devil.

Alma 40:14 Now this is the state of the souls of the wicked; yea, in darkness, and a state of awful, fearful looking for of the fiery indignation of the wrath of God upon them; thus they remain in this state, as well as the righteous in paradise, until the time of their resurrection.

Alma 40:15 Now there are some that have understood that this state of happiness, and the state of misery of the soul, before the resurrection, was a first resurrection. Yea, I admit it may be termed a resurrection; the raising of the spirit or the soul, and their consignation to happiness or misery, according to the words which have been spoken.

Alma 40:16 And behold, again it hath been spoken, that there is a first resurrection; a resurrection of all those which have been, or which are, or which shall be, down to the resurrection of Christ from the dead.

Alma 40:17 --Now we do not suppose that this first resurrection which is spoken of in this manner, can be the resurrection of the souls, and their consignation to happiness or misery. Ye cannot suppose that this is what it meaneth.

Alma 40:18 Behold, I say unto you Nay; but it meaneth the re-uniting of the soul with the body of those from the days of Adam, down to the resurrection of Christ.

Alma 40:19 Now whether the souls and the bodies of those of which have been spoken, shall all be re-united at once, the wicked as well as the righteous, I do not say; let it suffice that I say that they all come forth; or in other words, their resurrection cometh to pass before the resurrection of those which die after the resurrection of Christ.

Alma 40:20 Now my son, I do not say that their resurrection cometh at the resurrection of Christ; but behold, I give it as my opinion, that the souls and the bodies are re-united, of the righteous, at the resurrection of Christ, and his ascension into Heaven.

Alma 40:21 But whether it be at his resurrection, or after, I do not say; but this much I say: That there is a space between death and the resurrection of the body, and a state of the soul in happiness or in misery, until the time which is appointed of God that the dead shall come forth, and be re-united, both soul and body, and be brought to stand before God, and be judged according to their works;

Alma 40:22 yea, this bringeth about the restoration of those things of which have been spoken by the mouths of the prophets.

Alma 40:23 The soul shall be restored to the body, and the body to the soul; yea, and every limb and joint shall be restored to the soul; yea, and every limb and joint shall be restored to its body; yea, even a hair of the head shall not be lost, but all things shall be restored to its proper and perfect frame.

Alma 40:24 And now my son, this is the restoration of which has been spoken by the mouths of the prophets:

Alma 40:25 And then shall the righteous shine forth in the Kingdom of God.

Alma 40:26 But behold, an awful death cometh upon the wicked; for they die as to things pertaining to things of righteousness; for they are unclean, and no unclean thing can inherit the Kingdom of God; but they are cast out, and consigned to partake of the fruits of their laborsor their works, which have been evil; and they drink the dregs of a bitter cup.
