════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — 3 Nephi 11, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-05-13) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 11:1):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that there were a great multitude gathered together of the people of Nephi round about the temple which was in the land Bounti..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that there were a great multitude gathered together, of the people of Nephi, round about the temple which was in the land Boun..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 11:3):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one with another, they heard a voice as if it came out of heaven. And they cast their eyes ro..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one with another, they heard a voice, as if it came out of Heaven; and they cast there eyes r..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 11:10):
     EARLIER: "Behold, I am Jesus Christ--of which the prophets testified--that should come into the world."
     LATER:   "Behold I am Jesus Christ, of which the prophets testifiedthat should come into the world;"

  4. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 11:11):
     EARLIER: "And behold, I am the light and the life of the world. And I have drank out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me and have glorified the Fa..."
     LATER:   "and behold I am the light and the life of the world, and I have drank out of the bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Fat..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 11:15):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that the multitude went forth and thrust their hands into his side and did feel the prints of the nails in his hands and in his fe..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails in his hands and in his ..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 11:18):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that he spake unto Nephi--for Nephi was among the multitude--and commanded him that he should come forth."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that he spake unto Nephi, (for Nephi was among the multitude,) and he commanded him that he should come forth."

  7. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 11:32):
     EARLIER: "And this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine which the Father hath given unto me. And I bear record of the Father, and the Father beareth record of..."
     LATER:   "And this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine which the Father hath given unto me; and I bear record of the Father, and the Father beareth record of..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 11:37):
     EARLIER: "And again I say unto you: Ye must repent and become as a little child and be baptized in my name, or ye can in no wise receive these things."
     LATER:   "And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and become as a child, and be baptized in my name, or ye can in nowise receive these things."

  9. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 11:38):
     EARLIER: "And again I say unto you: Ye must repent and be baptized in my name and become as a little child, or ye can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God."
     LATER:   "And again I say unto you, Ye must repent, and be baptized in my name, and become as a little child, or ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God."

  10. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 11:40):
     EARLIER: "And whoso shall declare more or less than this and establisheth it for my doctrine, the same cometh of evil and is not built upon my rock, but he buil..."
     LATER:   "And whoso shall declare more or less than this, and establish it for my doctrine, the same cometh of evil, and is not built upon my rock, but he build..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

3 Nephi 11:1 And now it came to pass that there were a great multitude gathered together, of the people of Nephi, round about the temple which was in the land Bountiful; and they were marvelling and wondering one with another, and were shewing one to another the great and marvellous change which had taken place;

3 Nephi 11:2 and they were also conversing about this Jesus Christ, of which the sign had been given, concerning his death.

3 Nephi 11:3 And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one with another, they heard a voice, as if it came out of Heaven; and they cast there eyes round about, for they understood not the voice which they heard; and it was not a harsh voice, neither was it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being a small voice, it did pierce them that did hear, to the centre, insomuch that there were no part of their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn.

3 Nephi 11:4 --And it came to pass that again they heard the voice, and they understood it not;

3 Nephi 11:5 and again the third time they did hear the voice, and did open their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards Heaven, from whence the sound came;

3 Nephi 11:6 and behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it saith unto them,

3 Nephi 11:7 Behold, my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name, hear ye him.

3 Nephi 11:8 And it came to pass as they understood, they cast their eyes up again towards Heaven, and behold, they saw a man descending out of Heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe, and he came down and stood in the midst of them, and the eyes of the whole multitude was turned upon him, and they durst not open their mouths, even one to another, and wist not what it meant: for they thought it was an angel that had appeared unto them.

3 Nephi 11:9 And it came to pass that he stretched forth his hand, and spake unto the people, saying:

3 Nephi 11:10 Behold I am Jesus Christ, of which the prophets testifiedthat should come into the world;

3 Nephi 11:11 and behold I am the light and the life of the world, and I have drank out of the bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things, from the beginning.

3 Nephi 11:12 And it came to pass that when Jesus had spake these words, the whole multitude fell to the earth, for they remembered that it had been prophesied among them that Christ should shew himself unto them after his ascension into Heaven.

3 Nephi 11:13 And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto them saying:

3 Nephi 11:14 Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands, and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world.

3 Nephi 11:15 And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails in his hands and in his feet; and this they did do, going forth one by one, until they had all gone forth, and did see with their eyes, and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety, and did bear record, that it was he, of whom it was written by the prophets that should come.

3 Nephi 11:16 And it came to pass that when they had all gone forth, and had witnessed for themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying:

3 Nephi 11:17 Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God! And they did fall down at the feet of Jesus, and did worship him.

3 Nephi 11:18 And it came to pass that he spake unto Nephi, (for Nephi was among the multitude,) and he commanded him that he should come forth.

3 Nephi 11:19 And Nephi arose and went forth, and bowed himself before the Lord, and he did kiss his feet.

3 Nephi 11:20 --And the Lord commanded him that he should arise. And he arose and stood before him.

3 Nephi 11:21 And the Lord said unto him, I give unto you power that ye shall baptize this people, when I am again ascended into heaven.

3 Nephi 11:22 And again the Lord called others, and said unto them likewise; and he gave unto them power to baptize. And he saith unto them, On this wise shall ye baptize; and there shall be no disputations among you.

3 Nephi 11:23 Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins through your words, and desireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them: Behold, ye shall go down and stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them.

3 Nephi 11:24 And now behold, these are the words which ye shall say, calling them by name, saying:

3 Nephi 11:25 Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.

3 Nephi 11:26 And then shall ye immerse them in the water, and come forth again out of the water.

3 Nephi 11:27 And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name, for behold, verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost are one; and I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one.

3 Nephi 11:28 And according as I have commanded you, thus shall ye baptize. And there shall be no disputations among you, as there hath hitherto been; neither shall there be disputations among you concerning the points of my doctrine, as there hath hitherto been;

3 Nephi 11:29 for verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention, is not of me, but is of the Devil, which is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.

3 Nephi 11:30 Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that such things should be done away.

3 Nephi 11:31 Behold, verily, verily I say unto you, I will declare unto you my doctrine.

3 Nephi 11:32 And this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine which the Father hath given unto me; and I bear record of the Father, and the Father beareth record of me, and the Holy Ghost beareth record of the Father and me, and I bear record that the father commandeth all men, every where to repent and believe in me;

3 Nephi 11:33 and whoso believeth in me, and is baptized, the same shall be saved; and they are they which shall inherit the kingdom of God.

3 Nephi 11:34 And whoso believeth not in me, and is not baptized, shall be damned.

3 Nephi 11:35 --Verily, verily I say unto you, that this is my doctrine; and I bear record of it from the Father; and whoso believeth in me, believeth in the Father also; and unto him will the Father bear record of me; for he will visit him with fire, and with the Holy Ghost;

3 Nephi 11:36 and thus will the Father bear record of me; and the Holy Ghost will bear record unto him of the Father and me: for the father, and I, and the Holy Ghost, are one.

3 Nephi 11:37 And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and become as a child, and be baptized in my name, or ye can in nowise receive these things.

3 Nephi 11:38 And again I say unto you, Ye must repent, and be baptized in my name, and become as a little child, or ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.

3 Nephi 11:39 Verily, verily I say unto you, that this is my doctrine; and whoso buildeth upon this, buildeth upon my rock; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against them.

3 Nephi 11:40 And whoso shall declare more or less than this, and establish it for my doctrine, the same cometh of evil, and is not built upon my rock, but he buildeth upon a sandy foundation, and the gates of hell standeth open to receive such when the floods come, and the winds beat upon them.

3 Nephi 11:41 Therefore go forth unto this people and declare the words which I have spoken, unto the ends of the earth.
