════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Alma 4, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-04-15) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:2):
     EARLIER: "And the people being afflicted, yea, greatly afflicted, for the loss of their brethren, and also for the loss of their flocks and herds, and also for ..."
     LATER:   "and the people being afflicted, yea greatly afflicted for the loss of their brethren, and also for the loss of their flocks and herds, and also for th..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:3):
     EARLIER: "--and so great was their afflictions that every soul had cause to mourn, and they believed that it was the judgments of God sent upon them because of ..."
     LATER:   "Lasmanites, and so great was their afflictions, that every soul had cause to mourn; and they believed that it was the judgment of God sent upon them, ..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:4):
     EARLIER: "and they began to establish the church more fully. Yea, and many were baptized in the waters of Sidon and were joined to the church of God; yea, they ..."
     LATER:   "And they began to establish the church more fully; yea, and many were baptized in the water of Sidon, and were joined to the church of God; yea, they ..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:6):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass in the eighth year of the reign of the judges that the people of the church began to wax proud because of their exceeding riches a..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass in the eighth year of the reign of the Judges, that the people of the church began to wax proud, because of their exceeding riches..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:8):
     EARLIER: "For they saw and beheld with great sorrow that the people of the church began to be lifted up in the pride of their eyes and to set their hearts upon ..."
     LATER:   "For they saw and beheld with great sorrow, that the people of the church began to be lifted up in the pride of their eyes, and to set their hearts upo..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:9):
     EARLIER: "And thus in this eighth year of the reign of the judges there began to be great contentions among the people of the church; yea, there was envyings an..."
     LATER:   "And thus in this eighth year of the reign of the Judges, there began to be great contentions among the people of the church; yea, there were envyings,..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:11):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass in the commencement of the ninth year, Alma seeing the wickedness of the church and seeing also that the example of the church beg..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass in the commencement of the ninth year, Alma seeking the wickedness of the church, and seeing also that the example of the church b..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:12):
     EARLIER: "yea, seeing great unequality among the people, some lifting themselves up with their pride, despising others, turning their backs upon the needy and t..."
     LATER:   "yea, seeing great inequality among the people, some lifting themselves up with their pride, despising others, turning their backs upon the needy, and ..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:13):
     EARLIER: "--now this was a great cause for lamentations among the people--while others were abasing themselves, succoring those who stood in need of their succo..."
     LATER:   "Now this was a great cause for lamentations among the people, while others were abasing themselves, succoring those who stood in need of their succor,..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:15):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that and the persecutions which was heaped upon them by the remainder of his people and seeing all their unequality, he began ..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that Alma, having seen the afflictions of the humble followers of God, and the persecutions which was heaped upon them by the ..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:18):
     EARLIER: "Now Alma did not grant unto him the office of being high priest over the church, but he retained the office of high priest unto himself--but he delive..."
     LATER:   "Now Alma did not grant unto him the office of being High Priests over the church, but he retained the office of High Priest unto himself; but he deliv..."

  12. WORD CHANGE (Alma 4:20):
     EARLIER: "And thus in the commencement of the ninth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, and confined himself wholly to the high priesthood..."
     LATER:   "And thus in the commencement of the ninth year of the reign of the Judges over the people of Nephi, Alma delivered up the judgment seat to Nephihah, a..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

Alma 4:1 Now it came to pass in the sixth year of the reign of the Judges over the people of Nephi, there was no contentions nor wars in the land of Zarahemla;

Alma 4:2 and the people being afflicted, yea greatly afflicted for the loss of their brethren, and also for the loss of their flocks and herds, and also for the loss of their fields of grain, which was trodden under foot and destroyed by the

Alma 4:3 Lasmanites, and so great was their afflictions, that every soul had cause to mourn; and they believed that it was the judgment of God sent upon them, because of their wickedness and their abominations; therefore they were awakened to a remembrance of their duty.

Alma 4:4 And they began to establish the church more fully; yea, and many were baptized in the water of Sidon, and were joined to the church of God; yea, they were baptized by the hand of Alma, who had been consecrated the high priest over the people of the church by the hand of his father Alma.

Alma 4:5 And it came to pass in the seventh year of the reign of the Judges, there was about three thousand five hundred souls that united themselves to the church of God, and were baptized. And thus ended the seventh year of the reign of the Judges over the people of Nephi; and there was continual peace in all that time.

Alma 4:6 And it came to pass in the eighth year of the reign of the Judges, that the people of the church began to wax proud, because of their exceeding riches, and their fine silks, and their finetwined linen, and because of many flocks and herds, and their gold, and their silver, and all manner of precious things, which they had obtained by their industry; and in all these things were they lifted up in pride of their eyes, for they began to wear costly apparel.

Alma 4:7 Now this was the cause of much affliction to Alma, yea, and to many of the people which Alma had consecrated to be teachers, and priests, and elders, over the church; yea, many of them were sorely grieved for the wickedness which they saw had begun to be among their people.

Alma 4:8 For they saw and beheld with great sorrow, that the people of the church began to be lifted up in the pride of their eyes, and to set their hearts upon riches and upon vain things of the world; that they began to be scornful, one towards another, and they began to persecute those that did not believe according to their own will and pleasure.

Alma 4:9 And thus in this eighth year of the reign of the Judges, there began to be great contentions among the people of the church; yea, there were envyings, and strife, and malice, and persecutions, and pride, even to exceed the pride of those who did not belong to the church of God.

Alma 4:10 And thus ended the eighth year of the reign of Judges; and the wickedness of the church was a great stumbling block to those who did not belong to the church; and thus the church began to fail in its progress.

Alma 4:11 And it came to pass in the commencement of the ninth year, Alma seeking the wickedness of the church, and seeing also that the example of the church began to lead those who were unbelievers, on from one piece of iniquity to another, thus bringing on the destruction of the people;

Alma 4:12 yea, seeing great inequality among the people, some lifting themselves up with their pride, despising others, turning their backs upon the needy, and the naked, and those which were hungry, and those which are athirst, and those which were sick and afflicted.

Alma 4:13 Now this was a great cause for lamentations among the people, while others were abasing themselves, succoring those who stood in need of their succor, such as imparting their substance to the poor and the needy; feeding the hungry; and suffering all manner of afflictions, for Christ's sake, which should come according to the spirit of prophecy,

Alma 4:14 looking forward to that day, thus retaining a remission of their sins; being filled with great joy, because of the resurrection of the dead, according to the will, and power, and deliverance of Jesus Christ from the bands of death.

Alma 4:15 And now it came to pass that Alma, having seen the afflictions of the humble followers of God, and the persecutions which was heaped upon them by the remainder of his people, and seeing all their inequality, he began to be very sorrowful; nevertheless the spirit of the Lord did not fail him.

Alma 4:16 And he selected a wise man which was among the elders of the church, and gave him power according to the voice of the people, that he might have power to enact laws according to the laws which had been given, and to put them in force, according to the wickedness and the crimes of the people.

Alma 4:17 Now this man's name was Nephihah, and he was appointed Chief Judge; and he sat in the judgment seat, to judge and to govern the people.

Alma 4:18 Now Alma did not grant unto him the office of being High Priests over the church, but he retained the office of High Priest unto himself; but he delivered the judgment seat unto Nephihah:

Alma 4:19 and this he did, that he himself might go forth among his people, or among the people of Nephi, that he might preach the word of God unto them, to stir them up in remembrance of their duty, and that he might pull down, by the word of God, all the pride and craftiness, and all the contentions which was among his people, seeing no way that he might reclaim them, save it were in bearing down in pure testimony against them.

Alma 4:20 And thus in the commencement of the ninth year of the reign of the Judges over the people of Nephi, Alma delivered up the judgment seat to Nephihah, and confined himself wholly to the high priesthood of the holy order of God, to the testimony of the word, according to the spirit of revelation and prophecy.
