════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — 2 Nephi 28, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-06-22) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:2):
     EARLIER: "And the things which shall be written out of the book shall be of great worth unto the children of men and especially unto our seed, which are a remna..."
     LATER:   "The things which shall be written out of the book shall be of great worth unto the children of men, and especially unto our seed, which is a remnant o..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:3):
     EARLIER: "For it shall come to pass in that day that the churches which are built up and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto the other: Behold I, I a..."
     LATER:   "For it shall come to pass in that day, that the churches which are built up, and not unto, the Lord, when the one shall say unto the other, Behold, I,..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:11):
     EARLIER: "Yea, they have all gone out of the way. They have become corrupted because of pride."
     LATER:   "Yea, they have all gone out of the way; they have become corrupted."

  4. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:12):
     EARLIER: "And because of false teachers and false doctrines, their churches have become corrupted and their churches are lifted up; because of pride they are pu..."
     LATER:   "Because of pride, and because of false teachers, and false doctrine, their churches have become corrupted; and their churches are lifted up; because o..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:15):
     EARLIER: "O the wise and the learned and the rich that are puffed up in the pride of their hearts, and all they that preach false doctrines, and all they that c..."
     LATER:   "O the wise and the learned, and the rich, that are puffed up in pride of their hearts, and all they that preach false doctrines, and all they that com..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:16):
     EARLIER: "Woe unto them that turn aside the just for a thing of naught and revile against that which is good and say that it is of no worth, for the day shall c..."
     LATER:   "Wo unto them that turn aside the just for a thing of nought, and revile against that which is good, and say that it is no worth: for the day shall com..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:22):
     EARLIER: "And behold, others he flattereth away and telleth them: There is no hell. And he saith unto them: I am no devil, for there is none. And thus he whispe..."
     LATER:   "And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hell; and he saith unto the, I am no Devil, for there is none: and thus he whisper..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:24):
     EARLIER: "Therefore woe be unto him that is at ease in Zion!"
     LATER:   "Therefore, wo be unto him that is at ease in Zion."

  9. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:25):
     EARLIER: "Woe be unto him that crieth: All is well!"
     LATER:   "Wo be unto him that crieth, All is well;"

  10. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:26):
     EARLIER: "Yea, woe be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men and denieth the power of God and the gift of the Holy Ghost."
     LATER:   "yea, wo be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men, and denieth the power of God and the gift of the Holy Ghost."

  11. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:27):
     EARLIER: "Yea, woe be unto him that saith: We have received and we need no more."
     LATER:   "Yea, wo be unto him that saith, We have received, and we need no more."

  12. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:28):
     EARLIER: "And in fine, woe unto all they that tremble and are angry because of the truth of God. For behold, he that is built upon the rock receiveth it with gl..."
     LATER:   "And in fine, wo unto all they that tremble, and are angry because of the truth of God. For behold, he that is built upon the rock, receiveth it with g..."

  13. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:29):
     EARLIER: "Woe be unto him that shall say: We have received the word of God, and we need no more of the word of God, for we have enough."
     LATER:   "Wo be unto him that shall say, We have received the word of God, and we need no more of the word of God, for we have enough."

  14. WORD CHANGE (2 Nephi 28:32):
     EARLIER: "Woe be unto the Gentiles, saith the Lord God of Hosts; for notwithstanding I shall lengthen out mine arm unto them from day to day, they will deny me...."
     LATER:   "Wo be unto the Gentiles, saith the Lord God of Hosts: for notwithstanding I shall lengthen out mine arm unto them from day to day, they shall deny me;..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

2 Nephi 28:1 And now, behold, my brethren, I have spoken unto you, according as the spirit hath constrained me; wherefore, I know that they must surely come to pass.

2 Nephi 28:2 The things which shall be written out of the book shall be of great worth unto the children of men, and especially unto our seed, which is a remnant of the house of Israel.

2 Nephi 28:3 For it shall come to pass in that day, that the churches which are built up, and not unto, the Lord, when the one shall say unto the other, Behold, I, I am the Lord's; and the other shall say, I, I am the Lord's. And thus shall every one say, that hath built up the churches, and not unto the Lord;

2 Nephi 28:4 and they shall contend one with another; and their priests shall contend one with another; and they shall teach with their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost, which giveth utterance.

2 Nephi 28:5 And they deny the power of God, the Holy One of Israel; and they say unto the people, Hearken unto us, and hear ye our precept: for behold, there is no God to-day, for the Lord and the Redeemer hath done his work, and he hath given his power unto men.

2 Nephi 28:6 Behold, hearken ye unto my precept: if they shall say there is a miracle wrought, by the hand of the Lord, believe it not; for this day he is not a God of miracles: he hath done his work.

2 Nephi 28:7 Yea, and there shall be many which shall say, eat, drink, and be merry, for to-morrow we die; and it shall be well with us.

2 Nephi 28:8 And there shall also be many which shall say, eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God, he will justify in committing a little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this. And do all these things, for to-morrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the Kingdom of God.

2 Nephi 28:9 Yea, and there shall be many which shall teach after this manner, false, and vain, and foolish doctrines, and shall be puffed up in their hearts, and shall seek deep to hide their counsels from the Lord; and their works shall be in the dark;

2 Nephi 28:10 and the blood of the Saints shall cry from the ground against them.

2 Nephi 28:11 Yea, they have all gone out of the way; they have become corrupted.

2 Nephi 28:12 Because of pride, and because of false teachers, and false doctrine, their churches have become corrupted; and their churches are lifted up; because of pride, they are puffed up.

2 Nephi 28:13 They rob the poor, because of their fine sanctuaries; they rob the poor, because of their fine clothing; and they persecute the meek, and the poor in heart; because of their pride, they are puffed up.

2 Nephi 28:14 They wear stiff necks, and high heads; yea, and because of pride, and wickedness, and abominations, and whoredoms, they have all gone astray, save it be a few, which are humble followers of Christ; nevertheless, they are led, that in many instances they do err, because they are taught by the precepts of men.

2 Nephi 28:15 O the wise and the learned, and the rich, that are puffed up in pride of their hearts, and all they that preach false doctrines, and all they that commit whoredoms, and pervert the right way of the Lord; wo, wo, wo be unto them saith the Lord God Almighty, for they shall be thrust down to hell.

2 Nephi 28:16 Wo unto them that turn aside the just for a thing of nought, and revile against that which is good, and say that it is no worth: for the day shall come that the Lord God will speedily visit the inhabitants of the earth; and in that day that they are fully ripe in iniquity, they shall perish.

2 Nephi 28:17 But behold, if the inhabitants of the earth shall repent of their wickedness and abominations, they shall not be destroyed, saith the Lord of Hosts.

2 Nephi 28:18 But behold, that great and abominable church, the whore of all the earth, must tumble to the earth; and great must be the fall thereof:

2 Nephi 28:19 for the kingdom of the Devil must shake, and they which belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance, or the Devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and they be stirred up to anger and perish:

2 Nephi 28:20 for behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good;

2 Nephi 28:21 and others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security, that they will say, All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well; and thus the Devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell.

2 Nephi 28:22 And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hell; and he saith unto the, I am no Devil, for there is none: and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance.

2 Nephi 28:23 Yea, they are grasped with death and hell; and death, and hell, and the Devil, and all that have been seized therewith, must stand before the Throne of God, and be judged according to their works, from whence they must go into the place prepared for them, even a lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment.

2 Nephi 28:24 Therefore, wo be unto him that is at ease in Zion.

2 Nephi 28:25 Wo be unto him that crieth, All is well;

2 Nephi 28:26 yea, wo be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men, and denieth the power of God and the gift of the Holy Ghost.

2 Nephi 28:27 Yea, wo be unto him that saith, We have received, and we need no more.

2 Nephi 28:28 And in fine, wo unto all they that tremble, and are angry because of the truth of God. For behold, he that is built upon the rock, receiveth it with gladness; and he that is built upon a sandy foundation, trembleth, lest he shall fall.

2 Nephi 28:29 Wo be unto him that shall say, We have received the word of God, and we need no more of the word of God, for we have enough.

2 Nephi 28:30 For behold, thus saith the Lord God: I will give unto the children of men line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little there a little; and blessed are they that hearken unto my precepts, and lend an ear unto my counsel, for they shall learn wisdom: for unto him that receiveth, I will give more; and them that shall say, We have enough, from them shall be taken away even that which they have.

2 Nephi 28:31 --Cursed is he that putteth his trust in man, or maketh flesh his arm, or shall hearken unto the precepts of men, save their precepts shall be given by the power of the Holy Ghost.

2 Nephi 28:32 Wo be unto the Gentiles, saith the Lord God of Hosts: for notwithstanding I shall lengthen out mine arm unto them from day to day, they shall deny me; nevertheless, I will be merciful unto them, saith the Lord God, if they will repent and come unto me: for mine arm is lengthened out all the day long, saith the Lord God of Hosts.
