════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — 3 Nephi 16, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-05-15) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 16:4):
     EARLIER: "And I command you that ye shall write these sayings after that I am gone, that if it so be that my people at Jerusalem--they which have seen me and be..."
     LATER:   "And I command you that ye shall write these sayings, after that I am gone, that if it so be that my people at Jerusalem, they which have seen me, and ..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 16:5):
     EARLIER: "And then will I gather them in from the four quarters of the earth; and then will I fulfill the covenant which the Father hath made unto all the peopl..."
     LATER:   "And then will I gather them in from the four quarters of the earth; and then will I fulfil the covenant which the Father hath made unto all the people..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 16:7):
     EARLIER: "Behold, because of their belief in me, saith the Father, and because of the unbelief of you, O house of Israel, in the latter day shall the truth come..."
     LATER:   "Behold, because of their belief in me, saith the Father, and because of the unbelief of you, O house of Israel, in the latter day shall the truth come..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 16:8):
     EARLIER: "But woe, saith the Father, unto the unbelieving of the Gentiles, for notwithstanding that they have come forth upon the face of this land and have sca..."
     LATER:   "But Wo, saith the Father, unto the unbelieving of the Gentiles: for notwithstanding that they come forth upon the face of this land, and have scattere..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 16:9):
     EARLIER: "and because of the mercies of the Father unto the Gentiles and also the judgments of the Father upon my people which are of the house of Israel, veril..."
     LATER:   "and because of the mercies of the Father unto the Gentiles, and also the judgments of the Father upon my people, which are of the house of Israel, ver..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 16:10):
     EARLIER: "and thus commandeth the Father that I should say unto you: At that day when the Gentiles shall sin against my gospel and shall reject the fullness of ..."
     LATER:   "thus commandeth the Father that I should say unto you at that day, When the Gentiles shall sin against my Gospel, and shall reject the fulness of my G..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 16:12):
     EARLIER: "And I will shew unto thee, O house of Israel, that the Gentiles shall not have power over you, but I will remember my covenant unto you, O house of Is..."
     LATER:   "and I will shew unto thee, O house of Israel, that the Gentiles shall not have power over you, but I will remember my covenant unto you, O house of Is..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 16:15):
     EARLIER: "But if they will not return unto me and hearken unto my voice, I will suffer them--yea, I will suffer my people, O house of Israel--that they shall go..."
     LATER:   "But if they will not turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice, I will suffer them, yea, I will suffer my people, O house of Israel, that they shall go ..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 16:16):
     EARLIER: "Verily verily I say unto you: Thus hath the Father commanded me that I should give unto this people this land for their inheritance."
     LATER:   "Verily, verily, I say unto you, Thus has the Father commanded me, that I should give unto this people this land for their inheritance."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

3 Nephi 16:1 And verily, verily, I say unto you, That I have other sheep, which are not of this land; neither of the land of Jerusalem; neither in any parts of that land round about, whither I have been to minister.

3 Nephi 16:2 For they of which I speak, are they which have not as yet heard my voice; neither have I at any time manifested myself unto them.

3 Nephi 16:3 But I have received a commandment of the Father, That I shall go unto them, and that they shall hear my voice, and shall be numbered among my sheep, that there may be one fold, and one shepherd; therefore I go to shew myself unto them.

3 Nephi 16:4 And I command you that ye shall write these sayings, after that I am gone, that if it so be that my people at Jerusalem, they which have seen me, and been with me in my ministry, do not ask the Father in my name, that they may receive a knowledge of you by the Holy Ghost, and also of the other tribes which they know not of, that these sayings which ye shall write, shall be kept, and shall be manifested unto the Gentiles, that through the fulness of the Gentiles, the remnant of their seed which shall be scattered forth upon the face of the earth, because of their unbelief, may be brought in, or may be brought to a knowledge of me, their Redeemer.

3 Nephi 16:5 And then will I gather them in from the four quarters of the earth; and then will I fulfil the covenant which the Father hath made unto all the people of the house of Israel.

3 Nephi 16:6 And blessed are the Gentiles, because of their belief in me, in and of the Holy Ghost, which witness unto them of me and of the Father.

3 Nephi 16:7 Behold, because of their belief in me, saith the Father, and because of the unbelief of you, O house of Israel, in the latter day shall the truth come unto the Gentiles, that the fulness of these things shall be made known unto them.

3 Nephi 16:8 But Wo, saith the Father, unto the unbelieving of the Gentiles: for notwithstanding that they come forth upon the face of this land, and have scattered my people, which are of the house of Israel; and my people which are of the house of Israel, have been cast out from among them, and have been trodden under feet by them;

3 Nephi 16:9 and because of the mercies of the Father unto the Gentiles, and also the judgments of the Father upon my people, which are of the house of Israel, verily, verily, I say unto you, That after all this, and I have caused my people which are of the house of Israel, to be smitten, and to be afflicted, and to be slain, and to be cast out from among them, and to become hated by them . And

3 Nephi 16:10 thus commandeth the Father that I should say unto you at that day, When the Gentiles shall sin against my Gospel, and shall reject the fulness of my Gospel, and shall be lifted up in the pride of their hearts above all nations, and above all the people of the whole earth, and shall be filled with all manner of lyings, and of deceits, and of mischiefs, and all manner of hypocrisy, and murders, and priestcrafts, and whoredoms, and of secret abominations; and if they shall do all these things and shall reject the fulness of my Gospel, behold, saith the Father, I will bring the fulness of my Gospel from among them;

3 Nephi 16:11 and then will I remember my covenant which I have made unto my people, O house of Israel, and I will bring my Gospel unto them;

3 Nephi 16:12 and I will shew unto thee, O house of Israel, that the Gentiles shall not have power over you, but I will remember my covenant unto you, O house of Israel, and ye shall come unto the knowledge of the fulness of my Gospel.

3 Nephi 16:13 But if the Gentiles will repent, and return unto me, saith the Father, behold, they shall be numbered among my people, O house of Israel;

3 Nephi 16:14 and I will not suffer my people, which are of the house of Israel, to go through among them, and tread them down, saith the Father.

3 Nephi 16:15 But if they will not turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice, I will suffer them, yea, I will suffer my people, O house of Israel, that they shall go through among them, and shall tread them down, and they shall be as salt that hath lost his savour, which is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of my people, O house of Israel.

3 Nephi 16:16 Verily, verily, I say unto you, Thus has the Father commanded me, that I should give unto this people this land for their inheritance.

3 Nephi 16:17 And when the words of the prophet Isaiah shall be fulfilled, which saith,

3 Nephi 16:18 Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion.

3 Nephi 16:19 Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem: for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 16:20 The Lord hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations: and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of God.
