════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Alma 48, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-04-29) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Alma 48:7):
     EARLIER: "Now it came to pass that while Amalickiah had thus been obtaining power by fraud and deceit, Moroni, on the other hand, had been a preparing the minds..."
     LATER:   "Now it came to pass that while Amalickiah had thus been obtaining power by fraud and deceit, Moroni, on the other hand, had been preparing the minds o..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Alma 48:8):
     EARLIER: "Yea, he had been strengthening the armies of the Nephites and erecting small forts or places of resort, throwing up banks of earth round about to enci..."
     LATER:   "yea, he had been strengthening the armies of the Nephites, and erecting small forts, or places of resort; throwing up banks of earth round about, to e..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Alma 48:14):
     EARLIER: "Now the Nephites were taught to defend themselves against their enemies, even to the shedding of blood even if it were necessary. Yea, and they were a..."
     LATER:   "Now the Nephites were taught to defend themselves against their enemies, even to the shedding of blood, if it were necessary; yea, and they were also ..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Alma 48:15):
     EARLIER: "And this was their faith, that by so doing God would prosper them in the land; or in other words, if they were faithful in keeping the commandments of..."
     LATER:   "and this was their faith, that by so doing. God would prosper them in the land; or in other words, if they were faithful in keeping the commandments o..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Alma 48:16):
     EARLIER: "and also that God would make it known unto them whither they should go to defend themselves against their enemies, and by so doing the Lord would deli..."
     LATER:   "and also, that God would make it known unto them, whither they should go to defend themselves against their enemies; and by so doing, the Lord would d..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Alma 48:19):
     EARLIER: "Now behold, Helaman and his brethren were not less serviceable unto the people than was Moroni; for they did preach the word of God, and they did bapt..."
     LATER:   "Now behold, Helaman and his brethren were no less serviceable unto the people, then was Moroni; for they did preach the word of God, and they did bapt..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Alma 48:21):
     EARLIER: "But as I have said, in the latter end of the nineteenth year, notwithstanding their peace amongst themselves, they were compelled reluctantly to conte..."
     LATER:   "But as I have said in the latter end of the nineteenth; yea, notwithstanding their peace amongst themselves, they were compelled reluctantly to conten..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Alma 48:24):
     EARLIER: "Nevertheless they could not suffer to lay down their lives, that their wives and their children should be massacreed by the barbarous cruelty of those..."
     LATER:   "nevertheless, they could not suffer to lay down their lives, that their wives and their children should me massacred by the barbarous cruelty of those..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Alma 48:25):
     EARLIER: "Yea, they could not bear that their brethren should rejoice over the blood of the Nephites, so long as there were any who should keep the commandments..."
     LATER:   "yea, they could not bear that their brethren should rejoice over the blood of the Nephites, so long as there were any who should keep the commandments..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

Alma 48:1 And now it came to pass that as soon as Amalickiah had obtained the kingdom, he began to inspire the hearts of the Lamanites against the people of Nephi; yea, he did appoint men to speak unto the Lamanites from their towers, against the Nephites;

Alma 48:2 and thus he did inspire their hearts against the Nephites, insomuch, that in the latter end of the nineteenth year of the reign of the Judges, he having accomplished his designs thus far; yea, having been made king over the Lamanites, he sought also to reign over all the land; yea, and all the people which were in the land; the Nephites as well as the Lamanites;

Alma 48:3 therefore he had accomplished his design: for he had hardened the hearts of the Lamanites, and blinded their minds, and stirred them up to anger, insomuch that he had gathered together a numerous host, to go to battle against the Nephites.

Alma 48:4 For he was determined, because of the greatness of the number of his people, to overpower the Nephites, and to bring them into bondage:

Alma 48:5 and thus he did appoint Chief Captains of the Zoramites, they being the most acquainted with the strength of the Nephites, and their places of resort, and the weakest parts of their cities; therefore he appointed them to be Chief Captains over his armies.

Alma 48:6 And it came to pass that they took their camp, and moved forth towards the land of Zarahemla, in the wilderness.

Alma 48:7 Now it came to pass that while Amalickiah had thus been obtaining power by fraud and deceit, Moroni, on the other hand, had been preparing the minds of the people to be faithful unto the Lord their God;

Alma 48:8 yea, he had been strengthening the armies of the Nephites, and erecting small forts, or places of resort; throwing up banks of earth round about, to enclose his armies, and also building walls of stone to encircle them about, round about their cities, and the borders of their lands; yea, all round about the land;

Alma 48:9 and in their weakest fortifications, he did place the greater number of men; and thus he did fortify and strengthen the land which was possessed by the Nephites.

Alma 48:10 And thus he was preparing to support their liberty, their lands, their wives, and their children, and their peace, and that they might live unto the Lord their God, and that they might maintain that which was called by their enemies the cause of Christians.

Alma 48:11 And Moroni was a strong and mighty man; he was a man of a perfect understanding; yea, a man that did not delight in bloodshed; a man whose soul did joy in the liberty and the freedom of his country, and his brethren from bondage and slavery;

Alma 48:12 yea, a man whose heart did swell with thanksgiving to his God, for the many privileges and blessings which he bestowed upon his people; a man who did labor exceedingly for the welfare and safety of his people;

Alma 48:13 yea, and he was a man who was firm in the faith of Christ, and he had sworn with an oath, to defend his people, his rights, and his country, and his religion, even to the loss of his blood.

Alma 48:14 Now the Nephites were taught to defend themselves against their enemies, even to the shedding of blood, if it were necessary; yea, and they were also taught never to give an offence; yea, and never to raise the sword, except it were against an enemy, except it were to preserve their lives:

Alma 48:15 and this was their faith, that by so doing. God would prosper them in the land; or in other words, if they were faithful in keeping the commandments of God, that he would prosper them in the land; yea, warn them to flee, or to prepare for war, according to their danger;

Alma 48:16 and also, that God would make it known unto them, whither they should go to defend themselves against their enemies; and by so doing, the Lord would deliver them: and this was the faith of Moroni; and his heart did glory in it; not in the shedding of blood, but in doing good, in preserving his people; yea, in keeping the commandments of God; yea, and resisting iniquity.

Alma 48:17 Yea, verily, verily I say unto you, if all men had been, and were, and ever would be, like unto Moroni, behold, the very powers of hell would have been shaken forever; yea, the Devil would never have no power over the hearts of the children of men.

Alma 48:18 Behold, he was a man like unto Ammon, the son of Mosiah, yea, and even the other sons of Mosiah; yea, and also Alma and his sons: for they were all men of God.

Alma 48:19 Now behold, Helaman and his brethren were no less serviceable unto the people, then was Moroni; for they did preach the word of God, and they did baptize unto repentance, all, men whosoever would hearken unto their words.

Alma 48:20 And thus they went forth, and the people did humble themselves because of their words, insomuch that they were highly favored of the Lord; and thus they were free from wars and contentions among themselves; yea, even for the space of four years.

Alma 48:21 But as I have said in the latter end of the nineteenth; yea, notwithstanding their peace amongst themselves, they were compelled reluctantly to contend with their brethren, the Lamanites;

Alma 48:22 yea, and in fine, their wars never did cease for the space of many years with the Lamanites, notwithstanding their much reluctance.

Alma 48:23 Now they were sorry to take up arms against the Lamanites, because they did not delight in the shedding of blood; yea, and this was not all; they were sorry to be the means of sending so many of their brethren out of this world into an eternal world, unprepared to meet their God;

Alma 48:24 nevertheless, they could not suffer to lay down their lives, that their wives and their children should me massacred by the barbarous cruelty of those who was once their brethren, yea, and had dissented from their church, and had left them, and had gone to destroy them, by joining the Lamanites;

Alma 48:25 yea, they could not bear that their brethren should rejoice over the blood of the Nephites, so long as there were any who should keep the commandments of God: for the promise of the Lord were, If they should keep his commandments, they should prosper in the land.
