════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Alma 60, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-05-03) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:1):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that he wrote again to the governor of the land, which was Parhoron. And these are the words which he wrote, saying: Behold, I dir..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that he wrote again to the governor of the land, which was Pahoran, and these are the words which he wrote, saying, Behold, I dire..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:2):
     EARLIER: "For behold, I have somewhat to say unto them by the way of condemnation. For behold, ye yourselves know that ye have been appointed to gather together..."
     LATER:   "for behold, I have somewhat to say unto them by the way of condemnation; for behold, ye yourselves know that ye appointed to gather together men, and ..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:4):
     EARLIER: "But behold, were this all we had suffered, we would not murmur nor complain."
     LATER:   "But behold, were this all we had suffered, we would not murmur or complain;"

  4. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:5):
     EARLIER: "But behold, great has been the slaughter among our people--yea, thousands have fallen by the sword--while it might have otherwise been if ye had rende..."
     LATER:   "but behold, great has been the slaughter among our people; yea, thousands have fallen by the sword, while it might have otherwise been, if ye had rend..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:8):
     EARLIER: "yea, even they which have looked up to you for protection, yea, have placed you in a situation that ye might have succored them? Yea, ye might have se..."
     LATER:   "yea, even they which have looked up to you for protection, yea, have placed you in a situation that ye might have succored them, and have saved thousa..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:10):
     EARLIER: "And now my beloved brethren--for ye had ought to be beloved--yea, and ye had ought to have stirred yourselves more diligently for the welfare and the ..."
     LATER:   "And now, my beloved brethren; for ye had ought to be beloved; yea, and ye had ought to have stirred yourselves more diligently for the welfare and the..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:11):
     EARLIER: "Behold, could ye suppose that ye could sit upon your thrones, and because of the exceeding goodness of God ye could do nothing and he would deliver yo..."
     LATER:   "Behold, could ye suppose that ye could sit upon your thrones, and because of the exceeding goodness of God, ye could not do nothing, and he would deli..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:13):
     EARLIER: "For the Lord suffereth the righteous to be slain that his justice and judgment may come upon the wicked. Therefore ye need not suppose that the righte..."
     LATER:   "for the Lord suffereth the righteous, to be slain, that his justice and judgment may come upon the wicked; therefore ye need not suppose that the righ..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:15):
     EARLIER: "For were it not for the wickedness which first commenced at our head, we could have withstood our enemies, that they could have gained no power over u..."
     LATER:   "For were it not for the wickedness which first commenced at our head, we could not have withstood our enemies, that they could have gained power over ..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:16):
     EARLIER: "Yea, had it not been for the war which broke out among ourselves--yea, were it not for those kingmen which caused so much bloodshed among ourselves; y..."
     LATER:   "yea, had it not been for the war which broke out among ourselves; yea, were it not for these king-men, which caused so much bloodshed among ourselves,..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:17):
     EARLIER: "But behold, now the Lamanites are coming upon us; and they are murdering our people with the sword, yea, our women and our children--taking possession..."
     LATER:   "But behold, now the Lamanites are coming upon us, and they are murdering our people with the sword; yea, our women and children; taking possession of,..."

  12. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:18):
     EARLIER: "But why should I say much concerning this matter? For we know not but what ye yourselves are a seeking for authority. We know not but what ye are also..."
     LATER:   "But why should I say much concerning this matter, for we know not but what ye yourselves are seeking for authority? We know not but what ye are also t..."

  13. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:20):
     EARLIER: "Have ye forgat the commandments of the Lord your God? Yea, have ye forgat the captivity of our fathers? Have ye forgat the many times we have been del..."
     LATER:   "Have ye forgot the commandments of the Lord your God? Yea, have ye forgot the captivity of our fathers? Have ye forgot the many times we have been del..."

  14. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:22):
     EARLIER: "Yea, will ye sit in idleness while ye are surrounded with thousands of those--yea, and tens of thousands--which do also sit in idleness while there ar..."
     LATER:   "Yea, will ye sit in idleness, while ye are surrounded with thousands of those, yea, and tens of thousands, which do also sit in idleness, while there ..."

  15. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:23):
     EARLIER: "Do ye suppose that God will look upon you as guiltless while ye sit still and behold these things? Behold, I say unto you: Nay. Now I would that ye sh..."
     LATER:   "Do ye suppose that God will look upon us as guiltless, while we sit still and behold these things? Behold, I say unto you, Nay. Now I would that ye sh..."

  16. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:29):
     EARLIER: "Behold, it is time--yea, the time is now at hand--that except ye do bestir yourselves in the defense of your country and your little ones, the sword o..."
     LATER:   "Behold it is time, yea, the time is now at hand, that except ye do bestir yourselves in the defence of your country and your little ones, the sword of..."

  17. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:32):
     EARLIER: "Behold, can you suppose that the Lord will spare you and come out in judgment against the Lamanites when it is the tradition of their fathers that hat..."
     LATER:   "Behold, can you suppose that the Lord will spare you and come out in judgment against the Lamanites, when it is the tradition of their fathers that ha..."

  18. WORD CHANGE (Alma 60:34):
     EARLIER: "And now behold, I Moroni am constrained, according to the covenant which I have made, to keep the commandments of my God. Therefore I would that ye sh..."
     LATER:   "And now behold, I Moroni am constrained, according to the covenant which I have made to keep the commandments of my God; therefore I would that ye sho..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

Alma 60:1 And it came to pass that he wrote again to the governor of the land, which was Pahoran, and these are the words which he wrote, saying, Behold, I direct mine epistle to Pahoran, in the city of Zarahemla, which is the Chief Judge and the governor over the land, and also to all those who hath been chosen by this people to govern and manage the affairs of this war;

Alma 60:2 for behold, I have somewhat to say unto them by the way of condemnation; for behold, ye yourselves know that ye appointed to gather together men, and arm them with swords, and with cimeters, and all manner of weapons of war, of every kind, and sent forth against the Lamanites, in whatsoever parts they should come into our land.

Alma 60:3 And now behold, I say unto you, That myself, and also my men, and also Helaman and his men, have suffered exceeding great sufferings; yea, even hunger, thirst, and fatigue, and all manner of afflictions of every kind.

Alma 60:4 But behold, were this all we had suffered, we would not murmur or complain;

Alma 60:5 but behold, great has been the slaughter among our people; yea, thousands have fallen by the sword, while it might have otherwise been, if ye had rendered unto our armies sufficient strength and succor for them. Yea, great has been your neglect towards us.

Alma 60:6 And now behold, we desire to know the cause of this exceeding great neglect; yea, we desire to know the cause of your thoughtless state.

Alma 60:7 Can you think to sit upon your thrones, in a state of thoughtless stupor, while your enemies are spreading the work of death around you? Yea, while they are murdering thousands of your brethren;

Alma 60:8 yea, even they which have looked up to you for protection, yea, have placed you in a situation that ye might have succored them, and have saved thousands of them from falling by the sword?

Alma 60:9 But behold, this is not all: Ye have withheld your provisions from them, insomuch that many have fought and bled out their lives because of their great desires which they had for the welfare of this people; yea, and this they have done, when they were about to perish with hunger, because of your exceeding great neglect towards them.

Alma 60:10 And now, my beloved brethren; for ye had ought to be beloved; yea, and ye had ought to have stirred yourselves more diligently for the welfare and the freedom of this people: but behold, ye have neglected them, insomuch that the blood of thousands shall come upon your heads, for vengeance; yea, for known unto God were all the cries, and all their sufferings.

Alma 60:11 Behold, could ye suppose that ye could sit upon your thrones, and because of the exceeding goodness of God, ye could not do nothing, and he would deliver you? Behold, if ye have supposed this, ye have supposed in vain.

Alma 60:12 Do ye suppose that, because so many of your brethren have been killed, because of their wickedness? I say unto you, if ye supposed this, ye have supposed in vain: for I say unto you, there are many which have fallen by the sword; and behold, it is to your condemnation;

Alma 60:13 for the Lord suffereth the righteous, to be slain, that his justice and judgment may come upon the wicked; therefore ye need not suppose that the righteous are lost because they are slain; but behold, they do enter into a rest of the Lord their God.

Alma 60:14 And now behold, I say unto you, I fear exceedingly that the judgments of God will come upon this people, because of their exceeding slothfulness; yea, even the slothfulness of our government, and their exceeding great neglect towards their brethren, yea, towards those which have been slain:

Alma 60:15 For were it not for the wickedness which first commenced at our head, we could not have withstood our enemies, that they could have gained power over us;

Alma 60:16 yea, had it not been for the war which broke out among ourselves; yea, were it not for these king-men, which caused so much bloodshed among ourselves, if we had united our strength, as we hitherto have done; yea, had it not been for the desires of the power and authority which those king-men had over us; had they been true to the cause of our freedom, and united with us, and gone forth against our enemies, instead of taking up their swords against us, which was the cause of so much bloodshed among ourselves; yea if we had gone forth against them, in the strength of the Lord, we should have dispersed our enemies; for it would have been done according to the fulfilling of his word.

Alma 60:17 But behold, now the Lamanites are coming upon us, and they are murdering our people with the sword; yea, our women and children; taking possession of, our lands, and also carrying them away captive; causing them that they should suffer all manner of afflictions; and this because of the great wickedness of those who are seeking for power and authority; yea, even those king-men.

Alma 60:18 But why should I say much concerning this matter, for we know not but what ye yourselves are seeking for authority? We know not but what ye are also traitors to your country?

Alma 60:19 Or is it that ye have neglected us because ye are in the heart of our country, and ye are surrounded by security, that ye do not cause food to be sent unto us, and also men to strengthen our armies?

Alma 60:20 Have ye forgot the commandments of the Lord your God? Yea, have ye forgot the captivity of our fathers? Have ye forgot the many times we have been delivered out of the hands of our enemies?

Alma 60:21 Or do ye suppose that the Lord will still deliver us, while we sit upon our thrones, and do not make use of the means which the Lord hath provided for us?

Alma 60:22 Yea, will ye sit in idleness, while ye are surrounded with thousands of those, yea, and tens of thousands, which do also sit in idleness, while there are thousands round about in the borders of the land, which are falling by the sword, yea, wounded and bleeding?

Alma 60:23 Do ye suppose that God will look upon us as guiltless, while we sit still and behold these things? Behold, I say unto you, Nay. Now I would that ye should remember that God hath said that The inward vessel shall be cleansed first, and then shall the outer vessel be cleansed also.

Alma 60:24 And now except ye do repent of that which ye have done, and begin to be up and doing, and send forth food and men unto us, and also unto Helaman, that he may support those parts of our country which he hath retained, and that ye may also recover the remainder of our possessions in these parts, behold it will be expedient that we contend no more with the Lamanites until we have first cleansed our inward vessel; yea, even the great head of our government;

Alma 60:25 and except ye grant mine epistle, and come out and shew unto me a true spirit of freedom, and strive to strengthen and fortify our armies, and grant unto them food for their support, behold I will leave a part of my freemen to maintain this part of our land, and I will leave the strength and the blessings of God upon them, that none other power can operate against them;

Alma 60:26 and this because of their exceeding faith and patience in their tribulations;

Alma 60:27 and I will come unto you, and if there be any among you that hath a desire for freedom, yea, if there be even a spark of freedom remaining, behold, I will stir up insurrections among you, even until those who hath desires to usurp power and authority, shall become extinct;

Alma 60:28 yea, behold I do not fear your power nor your authority, but it is my God whom I fear, and it is according to his commandments that I do take my sword to defend the cause of my country, and it is because of your iniquity that we have suffered so much loss.

Alma 60:29 Behold it is time, yea, the time is now at hand, that except ye do bestir yourselves in the defence of your country and your little ones, the sword of justice doth hang over you; yea, and it shall fall upon you and visit you even to your utter destruction.

Alma 60:30 Behold, I wait for assistance from you, and except ye do administer unto our relief, behold I come unto you even into the land of Zarahemla, and smite you with the sword, insomuch that ye can have no more power to impede the progress of this people in the cause of freedom;

Alma 60:31 for behold the Lord will not suffer that ye shall live and wax strong in your iniquities, to destroy his righteous people.

Alma 60:32 Behold, can you suppose that the Lord will spare you and come out in judgment against the Lamanites, when it is the tradition of their fathers that hath caused their hatred; yea, and it hath been redoubled by those which have dissented from us, while your iniquity is for the cause of your love and glory, and the vain things of the world?

Alma 60:33 Ye know that ye do transgress the laws of god, and ye do know that ye do trample them under your feet. Behold, the Lord saith unto me, if those whom ye have appointed your governors, do not repent of their sins and iniquities, ye shall go up to battle against them.

Alma 60:34 And now behold, I Moroni am constrained, according to the covenant which I have made to keep the commandments of my God; therefore I would that ye should adhear to the word of God, and send speedily unto me of your provisions and of your men, and also Helaman.

Alma 60:35 And behold if ye will not do this, I come unto you speedily; for behold, God will not suffer that we should perish with hunger; therefore he will give unto us of your food, even if it must be by the sword. Now see that ye fulfill the word of God.

Alma 60:36 Behold, I am Moroni, your Chief Captain. I seek not for power but to pull it down. I seek not for honor of the world, but for the glory of my God, and the freedom and welfare of my country. And thus I close mine epistle.
