════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — 3 Nephi 5, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-05-11) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 5:1):
     EARLIER: "And now behold, there was not a living soul among all the people of the Nephites which did doubt in the least thing in the words of all the holy proph..."
     LATER:   "And now behold there was not a living soul among all the people of the Nephites, which did doubt in the least thing in the words of all the holy proph..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 5:5):
     EARLIER: "But as many as there were who did not enter into a covenant and who did still continue to have those secret murders in their hearts--yea, as many as w..."
     LATER:   "but as many as there were who did not enter into a covenant, and who did still continue to have those secret murders in their hearts; yea, as many as ..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 5:8):
     EARLIER: "and there had many things transpired which in the eyes of some would be great and marvelous. Nevertheless they cannot all be written in this book. Yea..."
     LATER:   "and there had been many things transpired which, in the eyes of some, would be great and marvellous; nevertheless, they cannot all be written in this ..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 5:12):
     EARLIER: "And behold, I am called Mormon, being called after the land of Mormon, the land in the which Alma did establish the church among this people, yea, the..."
     LATER:   "And behold, I am called Mormon, being called after the land of Mormon, the land in which Alma did establish the church among the people; yea, the firs..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 5:14):
     EARLIER: "And it hath become expedient that I, according to the will of God--that the prayers of those which have gone hence, which were the holy ones, should b..."
     LATER:   "And it hath become expedient that I according to the will of God, that the prayers of those which have gone hence, which were the holy ones, should be..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 5:18):
     EARLIER: "And I know the record which I make to be a just and a true record. Nevertheless there are many things which according to our language we are not able ..."
     LATER:   "And I know the record which I make to be a just and true record; neverthelers there are many things which according to our language, we are not able t..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 5:19):
     EARLIER: "And now I make an end of my saying which is of myself and proceed to give my account of the things which hath been before me."
     LATER:   "And now I make an end of my sayings which is of myself, and proceed to give my account of the things which hath been before me."

  8. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 5:20):
     EARLIER: "I am Mormon and a pure descendant of Lehi. I have reason to bless my God and my Savior Jesus Christ, that he brought our fathers out of the land of Je..."
     LATER:   "I am Mormon, and a pure descendant of Lehi. I have reason to bless my God and my saviour Jesus Christ, that he brought our fathers out of the land of ..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 5:22):
     EARLIER: "And inasmuch as the children of Lehi hath kept his commandments, he hath blessed them and prospered them according to his word."
     LATER:   "An insomuch as the children of Lehi hath kept his commandments, he hath blessed them and prospered them according to his word;"

  10. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 5:24):
     EARLIER: "And as surely as the Lord liveth will he gather in from the four quarters of the earth all the remnant of the seed of Jacob, which are scattered abroa..."
     LATER:   "and as surely as the Lord liveth will he gather in from the four quarters of the earth, all the remnant of the seed of Jacob, which was scattered abro..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 5:26):
     EARLIER: "And then shall they know their Redeemer, which is Jesus Christ the Son of God; and then shall they be gathered in from the four quarters of the earth ..."
     LATER:   "and then shall they know their Redeemer, which is Jesus Christ, the Son of God; and then shall they be gathered in from the four quarters of the earth..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

3 Nephi 5:1 And now behold there was not a living soul among all the people of the Nephites, which did doubt in the least thing in the words of all the holy prophets which had spoken; for they knew that it must needs be that they must be fulfilled;

3 Nephi 5:2 and they knew that it must be expedient that Christ had come, because of the many signs which had been given, according to the words of the prophets; and because of the things which had come to pass already, they knew it must needs be that all things should come to pass according to that which had been spoken;

3 Nephi 5:3 therefore they did forsake all their sins, and their abominations, and their whoredoms, and did serve God with all diligence, day and night.

3 Nephi 5:4 And now it came to pass that when they had taken all the robbers prisoners, insomuch that none did escape which were not slain, they did cast their prisoners into prison, and did cause the word of God to be preached unto them; and as many as would repent of their sins and enter into a covenant that they would murder no more, were set at liberty;

3 Nephi 5:5 but as many as there were who did not enter into a covenant, and who did still continue to have those secret murders in their hearts; yea, as many as were found breathing out threatenings against their brethren, were condemned and punished according to the law.

3 Nephi 5:6 And thus they did put an end to all those wicked, and secret, and abominable combinations, in the which there were so much wickedness, and so many murders committed.

3 Nephi 5:7 And thus had the twenty and second year passed away, and the twenty and third year also, and the twenty and fourth, and the twenty and fifth; and thus had twenty and five years passed away,

3 Nephi 5:8 and there had been many things transpired which, in the eyes of some, would be great and marvellous; nevertheless, they cannot all be written in this book; yea, this book cannot contain even a hundredth part of what was done among so many people in the space of twenty and five years;

3 Nephi 5:9 but behold there are records which do contain all the proceedings of this people; and a more short but a true account was given by Nephi;

3 Nephi 5:10 therefore I have made my record of these things according to the record of Nephi, which were engraven on the plates which were called the plates of Nephi.

3 Nephi 5:11 And behold I do make the record on plates which I have made with mine own hands.

3 Nephi 5:12 And behold, I am called Mormon, being called after the land of Mormon, the land in which Alma did establish the church among the people; yea, the first church which was established among them after their transgression.

3 Nephi 5:13 Behold I am a disciple of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I have been called of him to declare his word among his people, that they might have everlasting life.

3 Nephi 5:14 And it hath become expedient that I according to the will of God, that the prayers of those which have gone hence, which were the holy ones, should be fulfilled according to their faith, should make a record of these things which have been done;

3 Nephi 5:15 yea, a small record of that which hath taken place from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem, even down until the present time;

3 Nephi 5:16 therefore I do make my record from the accounts which hath been given by those which were before me, until the commencement of my day;

3 Nephi 5:17 and then I do make a record of the things which I have seen with mine own eyes.

3 Nephi 5:18 And I know the record which I make to be a just and true record; neverthelers there are many things which according to our language, we are not able to write.

3 Nephi 5:19 And now I make an end of my sayings which is of myself, and proceed to give my account of the things which hath been before me.

3 Nephi 5:20 I am Mormon, and a pure descendant of Lehi. I have reason to bless my God and my saviour Jesus Christ, that he brought our fathers out of the land of Jerusalem, (and no one knew it save it were himself and those which he brought out of that land,) and that he hath given me and my people so much knowledge unto the salvation of our souls.

3 Nephi 5:21 Surely he hath blessed the house of Jacob, and hath been merciful unto the seed of Joseph.

3 Nephi 5:22 An insomuch as the children of Lehi hath kept his commandments, he hath blessed them and prospered them according to his word;

3 Nephi 5:23 yea, and surely shall he again bring a remnant of the seed of Joseph to the knowledge of the Lord their God;

3 Nephi 5:24 and as surely as the Lord liveth will he gather in from the four quarters of the earth, all the remnant of the seed of Jacob, which was scattered abroad upon all the face of the earth;

3 Nephi 5:25 and as he hath covenanted with all the house Jacob, even so shall the covenant wherewith he hath covenanted with the house of Jacob, be fulfilled in his own due time, unto the restoring all the house of Jacob unto the knowledge of the covenant that he hath covenanted with them;

3 Nephi 5:26 and then shall they know their Redeemer, which is Jesus Christ, the Son of God; and then shall they be gathered in from the four quarters of the earth, unto their lands, from whence they have been dispersed; yea, as the Lord liveth, so shall it be. Amen.
