════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — 1 Nephi 10, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-06-08) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:1):
     EARLIER: "And now I Nephi proceed to give an account upon these plates of my proceedings and my reign and ministry. Wherefore to proceed with mine account, I mu..."
     LATER:   "And now I, Nephi, proceed to give an account upon these plates, of my proceedings, and my reign and ministry; therefore, to proceed with mine account...."

  2. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:3):
     EARLIER: "how that after they were destroyed--yea, even that great city Jerusalem--and that many were carried away captive into Babylon, that according to the o..."
     LATER:   "How that after they were destroyed, yea, even that great city Jerusalem; and that many were carried away captive into Babylon; that according to the o..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:4):
     EARLIER: "--yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem--a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews, yea, even a Messiah, ..."
     LATER:   "Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left jerusalem, a Prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews; yea, even a Messiah; or..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:8):
     EARLIER: "yea, even he should go forth and cry in the wilderness: Prepare ye the way of the Lord and make his paths straight, for there standeth one among you w..."
     LATER:   "yea, even he should go forth and cry in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight; for there standeth one among you ..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:9):
     EARLIER: "And my father saith that he should baptize in Bethabara beyond Jordan. And he also spake that he should baptize with water, yea, even that he should b..."
     LATER:   "And my father saith that he should baptise in Bethabara, beyond Jordan; and he also spake, that he should baptise with water. yea, even that he should..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:10):
     EARLIER: "And after that he had baptized the Messiah with water, he should behold and bear record that he had baptized the Lamb of God, which should take away t..."
     LATER:   "And after that he had baptised the Messiah with water, he should behold and bear record, that he had baptised the Lamb of God, which should take away ..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:11):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that after my father had spoken these words, he spake unto my brethren concerning the gospel which should be preached among the Je..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that after my father had spoken these words, he spake unto my brethren concerning the Gospel, which should be preached among the J..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:14):
     EARLIER: "And after that the house of Israel should be scattered, they should be gathered together again, or in fine, that after the Gentiles had received the f..."
     LATER:   "And after that the house of Israel should be scattered, they should be gathered together again; or, in fine, that after the Gentiles had received the ..."

  9. PHRASE REMOVAL (1 Nephi 10:17):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that after I Nephi having heard all the words of my father concerning the things which he saw in a vision and also the things whic..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, having heard all the words of my father, concerning the things which he saw in a vision; and also the things ..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:18):
     EARLIER: "for he is the same yesterday and today and forever. And the way is prepared for all men from the foundation of the world if it so be that they repent ..."
     LATER:   "for he is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever; and the way is prepared from the foundation of the world, if it so be that they repent and come unt..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:19):
     EARLIER: "For he that diligently seeketh shall find, and the mysteries of God shall be unfolded to them by the power of the Holy Ghost as well in this time as i..."
     LATER:   "for he that diligently seeketh, shall find; and the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the Holy Ghost, as well in these tim..."

  12. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:21):
     EARLIER: "Wherefore if ye have sought to do wickedly in the days of your probation, then ye are found unclean before the judgment seat of God. And no unclean th..."
     LATER:   "Wherefore, if ye have sought to do wickedly before the judgment seat of God; and no unclean thing can dwell with God; wherefore, ye must be cast off f..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

1 Nephi 10:1 And now I, Nephi, proceed to give an account upon these plates, of my proceedings, and my reign and ministry; therefore, to proceed with mine account. I must speak somewhat of the things of my father, and also of my brethren.

1 Nephi 10:2 For behold, it came to pass that after my father had made an end of speaking the words of his dream, and also exhorting them to all diligence, he spake unto them concerning the Jews:

1 Nephi 10:3 How that after they were destroyed, yea, even that great city Jerusalem; and that many were carried away captive into Babylon; that according to the own due time of the Lord, they should return again; yea, even be brought back out of captivity; and after they are brought back out of captivity, to possess again the land of their inheritance

1 Nephi 10:4 Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left jerusalem, a Prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews; yea, even a Messiah; or, in other words, a Saviour of the world.

1 Nephi 10:5 And he also spake concerning the prophets: How great a number had testified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of which he had spoken, or this Redeemer of the world.

1 Nephi 10:6 Wherefore, all mankind was in a lost and in a fallen state; and ever would be, save they should rely on this Redeemer.

1 Nephi 10:7 And he spake also, concerning a prophet, which should come before the Messiah, to prepare the way of the Lord;

1 Nephi 10:8 yea, even he should go forth and cry in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight; for there standeth one among you whom ye know not; and he is mightier than I, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose. And much spake my father concerning this thing.

1 Nephi 10:9 And my father saith that he should baptise in Bethabara, beyond Jordan; and he also spake, that he should baptise with water. yea, even that he should baptise the Messiah with water.

1 Nephi 10:10 And after that he had baptised the Messiah with water, he should behold and bear record, that he had baptised the Lamb of God, which should take away the sins of the world.

1 Nephi 10:11 And it came to pass that after my father had spoken these words, he spake unto my brethren concerning the Gospel, which should be preached among the Jews; and also, concerning the dwindling of the Jews in unbelief. And after that they had slain the Messiah which should come, and after that he had been slain, he should rise from the dead, and should make himself manifest, by the Holy Ghost, unto the Gentiles.

1 Nephi 10:12 Yea, even my father spake much concerning the Gentiles, and also concerning the House of Israel: that they should be compared like unto an olive tree, whose branches should be broken off, and should be scattered upon all the face of the earth.

1 Nephi 10:13 Wherefore, he said, it must needs be that we should be led with one accord, into the land of promise, unto the fulfilling of the word of the Lord: That we should be scattered upon all the face of the earth.

1 Nephi 10:14 And after that the house of Israel should be scattered, they should be gathered together again; or, in fine, that after the Gentiles had received the fulness of the Gospel, the natural branches of the olive tree, or the remnants of the House of Israel, should be grafted in, or come to the knowledge of the true Messiah, their Lord and their Redeemer.

1 Nephi 10:15 And after this manner of language did my father prophesy ,and speak unto my brethren; and also, many more things, which I do not write in this book: for I have written as many of them, as were expedient for me, in mine other book:

1 Nephi 10:16 And all these things of which I have spoken, was done, as my father dwelt in a tent, in the valley of Lemuel.

1 Nephi 10:17 And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, having heard all the words of my father, concerning the things which he saw in a vision; and also the things which he spake by the power of the Holy Ghost; which power, he received by faith on the Son of God . And the Son of God was the Messiah, which should come{+.

1 Nephi 10:18 for he is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever; and the way is prepared from the foundation of the world, if it so be that they repent and come unto him;

1 Nephi 10:19 for he that diligently seeketh, shall find; and the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the Holy Ghost, as well in these times, as in times of old; and as well as in times of old, as in times to come; wherefore, the courses of the Lord is one eternal round.

1 Nephi 10:20 Therefore, remember, O man, for all thy doings, thou shalt be brought into judgment.

1 Nephi 10:21 Wherefore, if ye have sought to do wickedly before the judgment seat of God; and no unclean thing can dwell with God; wherefore, ye must be cast off forever.

1 Nephi 10:22 And the Holy Ghost giveth authority that I should speak these things, and deny them not.
