════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Mosiah 27, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-04-13) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:8):
     EARLIER: "Now the sons of Mosiah was numbered among the unbelievers; and also one of the sons of Alma was numbered among them, he being called Alma after his fa..."
     LATER:   "Now the sons of Mosiah was numbered among the unbelievers; and also one of the sons of Alma was numbered among them, he being called Alma, after his f..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:9):
     EARLIER: "And he became a great hinderment to the prosperity of the church of God, stealing away the hearts of the people, causing much dissension among the peo..."
     LATER:   "And he became a great hinderment to the prosperity of the church of God; stealing away the hearts of the people; causing much dissention among the peo..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:10):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that while he was going about to destroy the church of God--for he did go about secretly with the sons of Mosiah, seeking to d..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that while he was going out about to destroy the church of God: for he did go about secretly with the sons of Mosiah, seeking ..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:13):
     EARLIER: "Nevertheless he cried again, saying: For why persecutest thou the church of God? For the Lord hath said: This is my church and I will establish it; an..."
     LATER:   "Nevertheless he cried again, saying, Alma, arise, and stand forth, for why persecuteth thou the church of God? For the Lord hath said, This is my chur..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:18):
     EARLIER: "And now Alma and those that were with him fell again to the earth, for great was their astonishment. For with their own eyes they had beheld an angel ..."
     LATER:   "And now Alma, and those that were with him, fell again to the earth, for great was their astonishment: for with their own eyes they had beheld an ange..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:23):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass after they had fasted and prayed for the space of two days and two nights, the limbs of Alma received their strength. And he stood..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass after that they fasted and prayed for the space of two days and two nights, the limbs of Alma received their strength, and he stoo..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:25):
     EARLIER: "And the Lord said unto me: Marvel not that all mankind, yea, men and women--all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people--must be born again, yea, born ..."
     LATER:   "And the Lord said unto me, Marvel not that all mankind, yea, men, and women, all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, must be born again; yea, born ..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:28):
     EARLIER: "Nevertheless, after wading through much tribulation, repenting nigh unto death, the Lord in mercy hath seen fit to snatch me out of an everlasting bur..."
     LATER:   "Nevertheless, after wandering through much tribulation, repenting nigh unto death, the Lord in mercy hath seen fit to snatch me out of an everlasting ..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:29):
     EARLIER: "My soul hath been redeemed from the gall of bitterness and bonds of iniquity. I was in the darkest abyss, but now I behold the marvelous light of God...."
     LATER:   "my soul hath been redeemed from the gall of bitterness and bonds of iniquity. I was in the darkest abyss; but now I behold the marvellous light of God..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:30):
     EARLIER: "I rejected my Redeemer and denied that which had been spoken of by our fathers. But now I know that they may foresee that he will come and that he rem..."
     LATER:   "I rejected my Redeemer, and denied that which had been spoken of by our fathers; but now that they may foresee that he will come, and that he remember..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:32):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that and those which were with Alma at the time the angel appeared unto them, traveling round about through all the land, publ..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that Alma began from this time forward, to teach the people, and those which were with Alma at the time the angel appeared unt..."

  12. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 27:35):
     EARLIER: "And after they had traveled throughout all the land of Zarahemla and among all the people which was under the reign of king Mosiah, zealously striving..."
     LATER:   "And after they had travelled throughout all the land of Zarahemla, and among all the people which was under the reign of king Mosiah, zealously strivi..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

Mosiah 27:1 And now it came to pass that the persecutions which was inflicted on the church by the unbelievers, became so great, that the church began to murmur, and complain to their leaders concerning the matter; and they did complain to Alma. And Alma laid the case before their king, Mosiah. And Mosiah consulted with his priests.

Mosiah 27:2 And it came to pass that king Mosiah sent a proclamation throughout the land round about, that there should not any unbeliever persecute any of those which belonged to the church of God;

Mosiah 27:3 and there was a strict command throughout all the churches, that there should be no persecutions among them; that there should be an equality among all men;

Mosiah 27:4 that they should let no pride nor haughtiness disturb their peace; that every man should esteem his neighbor as himself, laboring with their own hands for their support;

Mosiah 27:5 yea, and all their priests and teachers should labor with their own hands for their support, in all cases save it were in sickness, or in much want: and doing these things, they did abound in the grace of God.

Mosiah 27:6 And there began to be much peace again in the land; and the people began to be very numerous, and began to scatter abroad upon the face of the earth; yea, on the north and on the south, on the east and on the west, building large cities and villages in all quarters of the land.

Mosiah 27:7 And the Lord did visit them and prosper them, and they became a large and a wealthy people.

Mosiah 27:8 Now the sons of Mosiah was numbered among the unbelievers; and also one of the sons of Alma was numbered among them, he being called Alma, after his father; nevertheless he became a very wicked and idolatrous man. And he was a man of many words, and did speak much flattery to the people; therefore he led many of the people to do after the manner of his iniquities.

Mosiah 27:9 And he became a great hinderment to the prosperity of the church of God; stealing away the hearts of the people; causing much dissention among the people; giving a chance for the enemy of God to exercise his power over them.

Mosiah 27:10 And now it came to pass that while he was going out about to destroy the church of God: for he did go about secretly with the sons of Mosiah, seeking to destroy the church, and to lead astray the people of the Lord, contrary to the commandments of God, or even the king;

Mosiah 27:11 and as I said unto you, as they were going about rebelling against God, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto them; and he descended as it were in a cloud; and he spake as it were with a voice of thunder, which caused the earth to shake upon which they stood;

Mosiah 27:12 and so great was their astonishment, that they fell to earth, and understood not the words which he spake unto them.

Mosiah 27:13 Nevertheless he cried again, saying, Alma, arise, and stand forth, for why persecuteth thou the church of God? For the Lord hath said, This is my church, and I will establish it; and nothing shall overthrow it, save it is the transgression of my people.

Mosiah 27:14 And again: The angel saith, Behold, the Lord hath heard the prayers of his people and also the prayers of his servant Alma, which is thy father: for he hath prayed with much faith concerning thee, that thou mightest be brought to the knowledge of the truth; therefore for this purpose have I come to convince thee of the power and authority of God, that the prayers of his servants might be answered according to their faith.

Mosiah 27:15 And now behold, can ye dispute the power of God? For behold, doth not my voice shake the earth? And can ye not also behold me before you? And I am sent from God.

Mosiah 27:16 --Now I say unto thee, Go, and remember the captivity of thy fathers in the land of Helam, and in the land of Nephi; and remember how great things he hath done for them: for they were in bondage, and he hath delivered them. And now I say unto thee, Alma, Go thy way, and seek to destroy the church no more, that their prayers may be answered, and this even if thou wilt of thyself be cast off.

Mosiah 27:17 And now it came to pass that these were the last words which the angel spake unto Alma, and he departed.

Mosiah 27:18 And now Alma, and those that were with him, fell again to the earth, for great was their astonishment: for with their own eyes they had beheld an angel of the Lord; and his voice was as thunder, which shook the earth; and they knew that there was nothing save the power of God, that should shake the earth and cause it to tremble, as though it would part asunder.

Mosiah 27:19 And now the astonishment of Alma was so great, that he became dumb, that he could not open his mouth; yea, and he became weak, even that he could not move his hands; therefore he was taken by those that were with him, and carried helpless, even until he was laid before his father.

Mosiah 27:20 And they rehearsed unto his father all that had happened unto them; and his father rejoiced, for he knew that it was the power of God.

Mosiah 27:21 And he caused that a multitude should be gathered together, that they might witness what the Lord had done for his son, and also for those that were with him.

Mosiah 27:22 And he caused that the priests should assemble themselves together; and they began to fast, and to pray to the Lord their God, that he would open the mouth of Alma, that he might speak; and also that his limbs might receive their strength, that the eyes of the people might be opened to see and know of the goodness and glory of God.

Mosiah 27:23 And it came to pass after that they fasted and prayed for the space of two days and two nights, the limbs of Alma received their strength, and he stood up and began to speak unto them, bidding them to be of good comfort:

Mosiah 27:24 for, said he, I have repented of my sins, and have been redeemed of the Lord; behold, I am born of the spirit.

Mosiah 27:25 And the Lord said unto me, Marvel not that all mankind, yea, men, and women, all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, must be born again; yea, born of God, changed from their carnal and fallen state, to a state of righteousness, being redeemed of God, becoming his sons and daughters;

Mosiah 27:26 and thus they become new creatures; and unless they do this, they can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God.

Mosiah 27:27 I say unto you, unless this be the case, they must be cast off: and this I know, because I was like to be cast off.

Mosiah 27:28 Nevertheless, after wandering through much tribulation, repenting nigh unto death, the Lord in mercy hath seen fit to snatch me out of an everlasting burning, and I am born of God;

Mosiah 27:29 my soul hath been redeemed from the gall of bitterness and bonds of iniquity. I was in the darkest abyss; but now I behold the marvellous light of God. My soul was wrecked with eternal torment; but I am snatched, and my soul is pained no more.

Mosiah 27:30 I rejected my Redeemer, and denied that which had been spoken of by our fathers; but now that they may foresee that he will come, and that he remembereth every creature of his creating, and he will make himself manifest unto all;

Mosiah 27:31 yea, every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess before him. Yea, even at the last day, when all men shall stand to be judged of him, then shall they confess that he is God; then shall they confess, who live without God in the world, that the judgment of an everlasting punishment is just upon them; and they shall quake, and tremble, and shrink beneath the glance of his all-searching eye.

Mosiah 27:32 And now it came to pass that Alma began from this time forward, to teach the people, and those which were with Alma at the time the angel appeared unto them; travelling round about through all the land, publishing to all the people the things which they had heard and seen, and preaching the word of God in much tribulation, being greatly persecuted by those which were unbelievers, being smitten by many of them;

Mosiah 27:33 but notwithstanding all this, they did impart much consolation to the church, confirming their faith, and exhorting them with longsuffering and much travail, to keep the commandments of God.

Mosiah 27:34 And four of them were sons of Mosiah; and their names were Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner, and Himni: these were the names of the sons of Mosiah.

Mosiah 27:35 And after they had travelled throughout all the land of Zarahemla, and among all the people which was under the reign of king Mosiah, zealously striving to repair all the injuries which they had done to the church; confessing all their sins, and publishing all the things which they had seen, and explaining the prophecies and the scriptures to all who desired to hear them:

Mosiah 27:36 and thus they were instruments in the hands of God, in bringing many to the knowledge of the truth, yea, to the knowledge of their redeemer.

Mosiah 27:37 And how blessed they are! For they did publish peace; they did publish good tidings of good; and they did declare unto the people that the Lord reigneth.
