════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Alma 19, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-04-19) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:1):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that after two days and two nights they were about to take his body and lay it into a sepulchre which they had made for the purpos..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that after two days and two nights, they were about to take his body and lay it in a sepulchre which they had made for the purpose..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:2):
     EARLIER: "Now the queen having heard of the fame of Ammon, therefore she sent and desired that he should come in unto her."
     LATER:   "Now the queen having heard of the fame of Ammon, therefore she sent and desired that he should come unto her."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:4):
     EARLIER: "And she saith unto him: The servants of my husband have made it known unto me that thou art a prophet of a holy God and that thou hast power to do man..."
     LATER:   "And she saith unto him, The servants or my husband have made it known unto me, that thou art a prophet of a Holy God., and that thou hast the power to..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:6):
     EARLIER: "Now this was what Ammon desired, for he knew that king Lamoni was under the power of God. He knew that the dark veil of unbelief being cast away from ..."
     LATER:   "Now this was what Ammon desired, for he knew that king Lamoni was under the power of God; he knew that the dark veil of unbelief being cast away from ..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:7):
     EARLIER: "Therefore what the queen desired of him was his only desire. Therefore he went in to see the king according as the queen had desired him. And he saw t..."
     LATER:   "therefore, what the queen desired of him, was his only desire. Therefore he went in to see the king, according as the queen desired him; and he saw th..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:9):
     EARLIER: "And Ammon saith unto her: Believest thou this? And she said unto him: I have had no witness save thy word and the word of our servants. Nevertheless I..."
     LATER:   "And Ammon saith unto her, Believest thou this? And she asid unto him, I have had no witness, save thy word, and the word of our servants; nevertheless..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:14):
     EARLIER: "Now Ammon seeing the Spirit of the Lord poured out according to his prayers upon the Lamanites his brethren--which had been the cause of so much mourn..."
     LATER:   "Now Ammon seeing the spirit of the Lord poured out according to his prayers upon the Lamanites, his brethren, which had been the cause of so much mour..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:15):
     EARLIER: "Now when the servants of the king had saw that they had fallen, they also began to cry unto God, for the fear of the Lord had come upon them also, for..."
     LATER:   "Now when the servants of the king had seen that they had fallen, they also began to cry unto God, for the fear of the Lord had come upon them also: fo..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:16):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that they did call on the name of the Lord in their might even until they had all fallen to the earth, save it were one of the Lam..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that they did call on the name of the Lord in their might, even until they had fallen to the earth, save it were one of the Lamani..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:17):
     EARLIER: "--thus having been converted to the Lord--never had made it known. Therefore when she saw that all the servants of Lamoni had fallen to the earth, and..."
     LATER:   "thus having been converted to the Lord, never had made it known; therefore when she saw that all the servants of Lamoni had fallen to the earth, and a..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:18):
     EARLIER: "And they began to assemble themselves together unto the house of the king; and there came a multitude. And to their astonishment they beheld the king ..."
     LATER:   "and they began to assemble themselves together unto the house of the king. And there came a multitude, and to their astonishment, they beheld the king..."

  12. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:19):
     EARLIER: "And now the people began to murmur among themselves, some saying that it was a great evil that had come upon them--or upon the king and his house--bec..."
     LATER:   "And now the people began to murmur among themselves; some saying, That it was a great evil that had come upon them, or upon the king and his house, be..."

  13. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:20):
     EARLIER: "But others rebuked them, saying: The king hath brought this evil upon his house because he slew his servants who had had their flocks scattered at the..."
     LATER:   "But others rebuked them, saying, The king hath brought this evil upon his house, because he slew his servants who had their flocks scattered"

  14. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:21):
     EARLIER: "And they were also rebuked by those men which had stood at the waters of Sebus and scattered the flocks which belonged to the king, for they were angr..."
     LATER:   "by those men which had stood at the waters of Sebus, and scattered the flocks which belonged to the king, for they were angry with Ammon because of th..."

  15. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:29):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that she went and took the queen by the hand, that perhaps she might raise her from the ground. And as soon as she touched her han..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that she went and took the queen by the hand, that perhaps she might raise her from the ground; and as soon as she touched her han..."

  16. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:30):
     EARLIER: "And when she had said this, she clapped her hands, being filled with joy, speaking many words which were not understood. And when she had done this, s..."
     LATER:   "And when she had said this, she clasped her hands, being filled with joy, speaking many words which were not understood; and when she had done this, s..."

  17. WORD CHANGE (Alma 19:32):
     EARLIER: "But there was many among them who would not hear his words; therefore they went their way."
     LATER:   "But there were many among them which would not hear his words; therefore they went their way."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

Alma 19:1 And it came to pass that after two days and two nights, they were about to take his body and lay it in a sepulchre which they had made for the purpose of burying their dead.

Alma 19:2 Now the queen having heard of the fame of Ammon, therefore she sent and desired that he should come unto her.

Alma 19:3 And it came to pass that Ammon did as he was commanded, and went in unto the queen, and desired to know what she would that he should do.

Alma 19:4 And she saith unto him, The servants or my husband have made it known unto me, that thou art a prophet of a Holy God., and that thou hast the power to do many mighty works in his name;

Alma 19:5 therefore, if this is the case, I would that ye should go in and see my husband, for he has been laid upon his bed for the space of two days and two nights; and some say that he is not dead, but others say that he is dead, and that he stinketh, and that he ought to be placed in the sepulchre; but as for myself, to me he doth not stink.

Alma 19:6 Now this was what Ammon desired, for he knew that king Lamoni was under the power of God; he knew that the dark veil of unbelief being cast away from his mind, and the light which did light up his mind, which was the light of the glory of God, which was a marvellous light of his goodness; yea, this light had infused such joy into his soul, the cloud of darkness having been dispelled, and the light of everlasting light was lit up in his soul; yea, he knew that this had overcame his natural frame, and he was carried away in God;

Alma 19:7 therefore, what the queen desired of him, was his only desire. Therefore he went in to see the king, according as the queen desired him; and he saw the king, and he knew that he was not dead.

Alma 19:8 And he saith unto the queen, He is not dead, but he sleepeth in God, and on the morrow he shall rise again; therefore bury him not.

Alma 19:9 And Ammon saith unto her, Believest thou this? And she asid unto him, I have had no witness, save thy word, and the word of our servants; nevertheless, I believe that it shall be according as thou hast said.

Alma 19:10 And Ammon said unto her, Blessed art thou, because of thy exceeding faith; I say unto thee, woman, there has not been such great faith among all the people of the Nephites.

Alma 19:11 And it came to pass that she watched over the bed of her husband, from that time, even until that time on the morrow which Ammon had appointed that he should rise.

Alma 19:12 And it came to pass that he arose, according to the words of Ammon; and as he arose, he stretched forth his hand unto the woman, and said, Blessed be the name of God, and blessed art thou:

Alma 19:13 for as sure as thou livest, behold, I have seen my Redeemer; and he shall come forth, and be born of a woman, and he shall redeem all mankind who believe on his name. Now when he had said these words, his heart was swollen within him, and he sunk again with joy; and the queen also sunk down, being overpowered by the spirit.

Alma 19:14 Now Ammon seeing the spirit of the Lord poured out according to his prayers upon the Lamanites, his brethren, which had been the cause of so much mourning among the Nephites, or among all the people of God, because of their iniquities and their traditions; and Ammon fell upon his knees, and began to pour out his soul in prayer and thanksgiving to God, for what he had done for his brethren; and he was also overpowered with joy; and thus they all three had sunk to the earth.

Alma 19:15 Now when the servants of the king had seen that they had fallen, they also began to cry unto God, for the fear of the Lord had come upon them also: for it was they which had stood before the king, and testified unto him concerning the great power of Ammon.

Alma 19:16 And it came to pass that they did call on the name of the Lord in their might, even until they had fallen to the earth, save it were one of the Lamanitish women, whose name was Abish, she having been converted unto the Lord for many years, on account of a remarkable vision of her father;

Alma 19:17 thus having been converted to the Lord, never had made it known; therefore when she saw that all the servants of Lamoni had fallen to the earth, and also her mistress, the queen, and the king, and Ammon lay prostrate upon the earth, she knew that it was the power of God; and supposing that this opportunity, by making known unto the people what had happened among them, that by beholding this scene, it would cause them to believe in the power of God, therefore she ran forth from house to house, making it known unto the people;

Alma 19:18 and they began to assemble themselves together unto the house of the king. And there came a multitude, and to their astonishment, they beheld the king, and the queen, and their servants, prostrate upon the earth, and they all lay there as though they were dead; and they also saw Ammon, and behold, he was a Nephite.

Alma 19:19 And now the people began to murmur among themselves; some saying, That it was a great evil that had come upon them, or upon the king and his house, because he had suffered that the Nephite should remain in the land.

Alma 19:20 But others rebuked them, saying, The king hath brought this evil upon his house, because he slew his servants who had their flocks scattered

Alma 19:21 by those men which had stood at the waters of Sebus, and scattered the flocks which belonged to the king, for they were angry with Ammon because of the number which he had slain of their brethren at the waters of Sebus, while defending the flocks of the king.

Alma 19:22 Now one of them, whose brother had been slain with the sword of Ammon, being exceeding angry with Ammon, drew his sword and went forth that he might let it fall upon Ammon, to slay him; and as he lifted the sword to smite him, behold, he fell dead.

Alma 19:23 Now we see that Ammon could not be slain, for the Lord had said unto Mosiah, his father, I will spare him, and it shall be unto him according to thy faith; therefore Mosiah trusted him unto the Lord.

Alma 19:24 And it came to pass that when the multitude beheld the man had fell dead, who lifted the sword to slay Ammon, fear came upon them all, and they durst not put forth their hands to touch him, or any of those which had fallen; and they began to marvel again among themselves, what could be the cause of this great power, or what all these things could mean.

Alma 19:25 And it came to pass that there was many among them, who said that Ammon was the Great Spirit, and others said he was sent by the Great Spirit;

Alma 19:26 but others rebuked them all, saying, That he was a monster, which hath been sent from the Nephites to torment us;

Alma 19:27 and there were some which said that Ammon was sent by the Great Spirit to afflict them, because of their iniquities, and that it was the Great Spirit that had always attended the Nephites, which had ever delivered them out of their hands; and they said that it was this Great Spirit which had destroyed so many of their brethren, the Lamanites;

Alma 19:28 and thus the contention began to be exceeding sharp among them. And while they were thus contending, the woman servant which had caused the multitude to be gathered together came; and when she saw the contention which was among the multitude, she was exceeding sorrowful, even unto tears.

Alma 19:29 And it came to pass that she went and took the queen by the hand, that perhaps she might raise her from the ground; and as soon as she touched her hand, she arose and stood upon her feet, and cried with a loud voice, saying: O blessed Jesus, who has saved me from the awful hell! O blessed God, have mercy on this people.

Alma 19:30 And when she had said this, she clasped her hands, being filled with joy, speaking many words which were not understood; and when she had done this, she took the king, Lamoni, by the hand, and behold, he arose and stood upon his feet;

Alma 19:31 and he immediately, seeing the contention among his people, went forth and began to rebuke them, and to teach them the words which he had heard from the mouth of Ammon; and as many as heard his words, believed, and were converted unto the Lord.

Alma 19:32 But there were many among them which would not hear his words; therefore they went their way.

Alma 19:33 And it came to pass that when Ammon arose, he also administered unto them, and also did all the servants of Lamoni; and they did all declare unto the people the self-same thing: and their hearts had been changed; that they had no more desire to do evil.

Alma 19:34 And behold, many did declare unto the people that they had seen angels, and had conversed with them; and thus they had told them things of God, and of his righteousness,

Alma 19:35 And it came to pass that there was many that did believe in their words; and as many as did believe, were baptized; and they became a righteous people, and they did establish a church among them:

Alma 19:36 and thus the work of the Lord did commence among the Lamanites; thus the Lord did begin to pour out his spirit upon them; and we see that his arm is extended to all people who will repent and believe on his name.
