════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Alma 42, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-04-27) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Alma 42:2):
     EARLIER: "Now behold, my son, I will explain this thing unto thee. For behold, after the Lord God sent our first parents forth from the garden of Eden to till t..."
     LATER:   "Now behold, my son, I will explain this thing unto thee: for behold, after the Lord God sent our first parents forth from the garden of Eden to till t..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Alma 42:9):
     EARLIER: "Therefore as the soul could never die and the fall had brought upon all mankind a spiritual death as well as a temporal--that is, they were cut off fr..."
     LATER:   "therefore, as the soul could never die, and the fall had brought upon all mankind a spiritual death as well as a temporal; that is, they were cut off ..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Alma 42:10):
     EARLIER: "Therefore as they had become carnal, sensual, and devilish by nature, this probationary state became a state for them to prepare; it became a preparat..."
     LATER:   "therefore as they become carnal, sensual and devlish, by nature, this probationary state became a state for them to prepare: it became a preparatory s..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Alma 42:11):
     EARLIER: "And now remember, my son, if it were not for the plan of redemption--laying it aside--as soon as they were dead, their souls were miserable, being cut..."
     LATER:   "And now remember my son, if it were not for the plan of redemption, (laying it aside,) as soon as they were dead, their souls were miserable, being cu..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Alma 42:15):
     EARLIER: "And now the plan of mercy could not be brought about except an atonement should be made. Therefore God himself atoneth for the sins of the world, to b..."
     LATER:   "And now the plan of mercy could not be brought about, except an atonement should be made; therefore God himself atoneth for the sins of the world, to ..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Alma 42:17):
     EARLIER: "Now how could a man repent except he should sin? How could he sin if there was no law? How could there be a law save there was a punishment?"
     LATER:   "--Now, how could a man repent, except he should sin? How could he sin, if there was no law? How could there be a law, saved there was a punishment?"

  7. WORD CHANGE (Alma 42:27):
     EARLIER: "Therefore, O my son, whosoever will come may come and partake of the waters of life freely. And whosoever will not come, the same is not compelled to ..."
     LATER:   "therefore, O my son, whosoever will come, and partake of the waters of life freely; and whosoever will not come, the same is not compelled to come; bu..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Alma 42:30):
     EARLIER: "O my son, I desire that ye should deny the justice of God no more. Do not endeavor to excuse yourself in the least point because of your sins by denyi..."
     LATER:   "O my son, I desire that ye should deny the justice of God no more. Do not endeavor to excuse yourself in the least point, because of your sins, by den..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Alma 42:31):
     EARLIER: "And now my son, ye are called of God to preach the word unto this people. And now my son, go thy way; declare the word with truth and soberness, that ..."
     LATER:   "And now, O my son, ye are called of God to preach the word unto this people. And now, my son, go thy way, declare the word with truth and soberness, t..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

Alma 42:1 And now, my son, I perceive there is somewhat more which doth worry your mind, which ye cannot understand, which is concerning the justice of God, in the punishment of the sinner: for ye do try to suppose that it is injustice that the sinner should be consigned to a state of misery.

Alma 42:2 Now behold, my son, I will explain this thing unto thee: for behold, after the Lord God sent our first parents forth from the garden of Eden to till the ground, from whence he was taken; yea, he drew out the man, and he placed at the east end of the garden of Eden, Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the tree of life.

Alma 42:3 Now we see that the man had became as God, knowing good and evil; and lest he should put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live forever, that the Lord God placed Cherubims and the flaming sword, that he should not partake of the fruit;

Alma 42:4 and thus we see, that there was a time granted unto man, to repent, yea, a probationary time, a time to repent and serve God.

Alma 42:5 For behold, if Adam had put forth his hand immediately, and partook of the tree of life, he would have lived forever, according to the word of God, having no space for repentance; yea, and also the word of God would have been void, and the great plan of salvation would have been frustrated.

Alma 42:6 But behold, it was appointed unto man to die; therefore as they were cut off from the tree of life, therefore they should be cut off from the face of the earth; and man became lost forever; yea, they became fallen man.

Alma 42:7 And now we see by this, that our first parents were cut off, both temporally and spiritually, from the presence of the Lord; and thus we see they became subjects to follow after their own will.

Alma 42:8 Now behold, it was not expedient that man should be reclaimed from this temporal death, for that would destroy the great plan of happiness;

Alma 42:9 therefore, as the soul could never die, and the fall had brought upon all mankind a spiritual death as well as a temporal; that is, they were cut off from the presence of the Lord; therefore it was expedient that mankind should be reclaimed from this spiritual death;

Alma 42:10 therefore as they become carnal, sensual and devlish, by nature, this probationary state became a state for them to prepare: it became a preparatory state.

Alma 42:11 And now remember my son, if it were not for the plan of redemption, (laying it aside,) as soon as they were dead, their souls were miserable, being cut off from the presence of the Lord.

Alma 42:12 And now there was no means to reclaim men from this fallen state which man had brought upon himself, because of his own disobedience;

Alma 42:13 therefore, according to justice, the plan of redemption could not be brought about, only, on conditions of repentance of men in this probationary state; yea, this preparatory state; for except it were for these conditions, mercy could not take effect except it should destroy the work of justice. Now the work of justice could not be destroyed: if so, God would cease to be God.

Alma 42:14 And thus we see that all mankind were fallen, and they were in the grasp of justice; yea, the justice of God, which consigned them forever to be cut off from his presence.

Alma 42:15 And now the plan of mercy could not be brought about, except an atonement should be made; therefore God himself atoneth for the sins of the world, to bring about a plan of mercy, to appease the demands of justice, that God might be a perfect, just God, and a merciful God.

Alma 42:16 Also, now repentance could not come unto men, except there were a punishment, which also was as eternal as the life of the soul should be, affixed opposite to the plan of happiness, which was as eternal also as the life of the soul.

Alma 42:17 --Now, how could a man repent, except he should sin? How could he sin, if there was no law? How could there be a law, saved there was a punishment?

Alma 42:18 Now there was a punishment affixed, and a just law given, which brought remorse of conscience unto man.

Alma 42:19 Now if there was no law given, if a man murdered he should die, would he be afraid he should die if he should murder?

Alma 42:20 And also, if there was no law given against sin, men would not be afraid to sin.

Alma 42:21 And if there was no law given if men sinned, what could justice do, or mercy either, for they would have no claim upon the creature?

Alma 42:22 But there is a law given, and a punishment affixed, and repentance granted; which repentance, mercy claimeth; otherwise, justice claimeth the creature, and executeth the law, and the law inflicteth the punishment; if not so, the works of justice would be destroyed, and God would cease to be God.

Alma 42:23 But God ceaseth not to be God, and mercy claimeth the penitent, and mercy cometh because of the atonement; and the atonement bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead; and the resurrection of the dead bringeth back men into the presence of god; and thus they are restored into his presence, to be judged according to their works; according to the law and justice;

Alma 42:24 for behold, justice exerciseth all his demands, and also mercy claimeth all which is her own; and thus, none but the truly penitent are saved.

Alma 42:25 What do ye suppose that mercy can rob justice? I say unto you, Nay; not one whit. If so, God would cease to be God.

Alma 42:26 And thus God bringeth about his great and eternal purposes, which was prepared from the foundation of the world. And thus cometh about the salvation and the redemption of men, and also their destruction and misery;

Alma 42:27 therefore, O my son, whosoever will come, and partake of the waters of life freely; and whosoever will not come, the same is not compelled to come; but in the last day, it shall be restored unto him, according to his deeds.

Alma 42:28 If he hath desired to do evil, and hath not repented in his days, behold, evil shall be done unto him, according to the restoration of God.

Alma 42:29 And now my son, I desire that ye should let these things trouble you no more, and only let your sins trouble you, with that trouble which shall bring you down unto repentance.

Alma 42:30 O my son, I desire that ye should deny the justice of God no more. Do not endeavor to excuse yourself in the least point, because of your sins, by denying the justice of God, but do you let the justice of God, and his mercy, and longsuffering, having full sway in your heart; but let it bring you down to the dust, in humility.

Alma 42:31 And now, O my son, ye are called of God to preach the word unto this people. And now, my son, go thy way, declare the word with truth and soberness, that thou mayest bring souls unto repentance, that the great plan of mercy may have claim upon them.--And may God grant unto you even according to my words.--Amen.
