════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Mosiah 8, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-04-09) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 8:1):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that after king Limhi had made an end of speaking to his people--for he spake many things unto them, and only a few of them have I..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that after king Limhi had made an end of speaking to his people, for he spake many things unto them, and only a few of them have I..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 8:5):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that he caused that the plates which contained the record of his people from the time that they left the land of Zarahemla should ..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that he caused that the plates which contained the record of his people, from the time before Ammon, that he might read them."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 8:8):
     EARLIER: "And they were lost in the wilderness for the space of many days, yet they were diligent and found not the land of Zarahemla but returned to this land,..."
     LATER:   "and they were lost in the wilderness, for the space of many days, yet they were diligent, and found not the land of Zarahemla, but returned to this la..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 8:9):
     EARLIER: "And for a testimony that the things that they have said is true, they have brought twenty four plates which are filled with engravings; and they are o..."
     LATER:   "And for a testimony that the things that they have said is true, they have brought twenty-four plates, which are filled with engravings; and they are ..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 8:11):
     EARLIER: "And again, they have brought swords; the hilts thereof hath perished and the blades thereof were cankered with rust. And there is no one in the land t..."
     LATER:   "And again: They have brought swords, the hilts thereof hath perished, and the blades thereof were cankered with rust; and there is no one in the land ..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 8:12):
     EARLIER: "And I say unto thee again: Knowest thou of any one that can translate? For I am desirous that these records should be translated into our language, fo..."
     LATER:   "And I say unto you again, Knowest thou of any one that can translate? for I am desirous that these records should be translated into our language. For..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 8:17):
     EARLIER: "But a seer can know of things which has passed, and also of things which is to come; and by them shall all things be revealed--or rather shall secret ..."
     LATER:   "But a seer can know of things which has past, and also of things which is to come; and by them shall all things be revealed, or rather, shall secret t..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 8:20):
     EARLIER: "O how marvelous are the works of the Lord! And how long doth he suffer with his people! Yea, and how blind and impenetrable are the understandings of ..."
     LATER:   "O how marvellous are the works of the Lord, and how long doth he suffer with his people; yea, and how blind and impenetrable are the understandings of..."

  9. PHRASE REMOVAL (Mosiah 8:21):
     EARLIER: "Yea, they are as a wild flock which fleeth from the shepherd and scattereth, and are driven and are devoured by the beasts of the forest. The Record o..."
     LATER:   "Yea, they are as a wild flock, which fleeth from the shepherd, and scattereth, and are driven, and are devoured by the beasts of the forest."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

Mosiah 8:1 And it came to pass that after king Limhi had made an end of speaking to his people, for he spake many things unto them, and only a few of them have I written in this book, he told his people all the things concerning their brethren which were in the land of Zarahemla;

Mosiah 8:2 and he caused that Ammon should stand up before the multitude, and rehearse unto them all that had happened unto their brethren, from the time that Zeniff went up out of the land, even until the time that he, himself came out of the land.

Mosiah 8:3 And he also rehearsed unto them the last words which king Benjamin had taught them, and explained them to the people of king Limhi, so that they might understand all the words he spake.

Mosiah 8:4 And it came to pass that after he had done all this, that king Limhi dismissed the multitude, and caused that they should return, every one unto his own house.

Mosiah 8:5 And it came to pass that he caused that the plates which contained the record of his people, from the time before Ammon, that he might read them.

Mosiah 8:6 Now, as soon as Ammon had read the record, the king inquired of him to know if he could interpret languages. And Ammon told him that he could not.

Mosiah 8:7 And the king saith unto him, I being grieved for the afflictions of my people, I caused that forty and three of my people should take a journey into the wilderness, that thereby they might find the land of Zarahemla; that we might appeal unto our brethren to deliver us out of bondage;

Mosiah 8:8 and they were lost in the wilderness, for the space of many days, yet they were diligent, and found not the land of Zarahemla, but returned to this land, having travelled in a land among many waters; having discovered a land which was covered with ruins of buildings of every kind; having discovered a land which had been peopled with a people, which were as numerous as the hosts of Israel.

Mosiah 8:9 And for a testimony that the things that they have said is true, they have brought twenty-four plates, which are filled with engravings; and they are of pure gold.

Mosiah 8:10 And behold, also, they have brought breast-plates, which are large; and they are of brass, and of copper, and are perfectly sound.

Mosiah 8:11 And again: They have brought swords, the hilts thereof hath perished, and the blades thereof were cankered with rust; and there is no one in the land that is able to interpret the language of the engravings that are on the plates. Therefore, I said unto thee, Canst thou translate?

Mosiah 8:12 And I say unto you again, Knowest thou of any one that can translate? for I am desirous that these records should be translated into our language. For, perhaps they will give us a knowledge of a remnant of the people which have been destroyed, from whence these records came; or, perhaps they will give us a knowledge of this very people which hath been destroyed; and I am desirous to know the cause of their destruction.

Mosiah 8:13 Now, Ammon saith unto him, I can assuredly tell thee, O king, of a man that can translate the records: for he hath wherewith that he can look, and translate all records that are of ancient date; and it is a gift from God. And the things are called interpreters; and no man can look in them, except he be commanded, lest he should look for that he had not ought, and he should perish. And whosoever is commanded to look in them, the same is called seer.

Mosiah 8:14 And behold, the king of the people which is in the land of Zarahemla, is the man that is commanded to do these things, and which hath this high gift from God.

Mosiah 8:15 And the king saith, That a seer is greater than a prophet.

Mosiah 8:16 And Ammon saith, That a seer is a revelator, and a prophet also; and a gift which is greater, can no man have, except he should possess the power of God, which no man can; yet a man may have great power given him from God.

Mosiah 8:17 But a seer can know of things which has past, and also of things which is to come; and by them shall all things be revealed, or rather, shall secret things be made manifest, and hidden things shall come to light, and things which is not known, shall be made known by them; and also, things shall be made known by them, which otherwise could not be known.

Mosiah 8:18 Thus God hath provided a means that man, through faith, might work mighty miracles; therefore, he becometh a great benefit to his fellow beings.

Mosiah 8:19 And now, when Ammon had made an end of speaking these words, the king rejoiced exceedingly, and gave thanks to God, saying, Doubtless, a great mystery is contained within these plates; and these interpreters was doubtless prepared for the purpose of unfolding all such mysteries to the children of men.

Mosiah 8:20 O how marvellous are the works of the Lord, and how long doth he suffer with his people; yea, and how blind and impenetrable are the understandings of the children of men: for they shall not seek wisdom, neither do they desire that she should rule over them.

Mosiah 8:21 Yea, they are as a wild flock, which fleeth from the shepherd, and scattereth, and are driven, and are devoured by the beasts of the forest.
