════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — 3 Nephi 10, Book of Mormon, 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1829 Printer's Manuscript (1829-05-12) → 1830 Palmyra (1830-03-26):

  1. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 10:1):
     EARLIER: "And now behold, it came to pass that all the people of the land did hear these sayings and did witness of it. And after these sayings there was silenc..."
     LATER:   "And now behold it came to pass that all the people of the land did hear these sayings, and did witness of it. And after these sayings there was a sile..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 10:2):
     EARLIER: "for so great was the astonishment of the people that they did cease lamenting and howling for the loss of their kindreds which had been slain. Therefo..."
     LATER:   "for so great was the astonishment of the people that they did cease lamenting and howling for the loss of their kindred which had been slain; therefor..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 10:3):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that there came a voice again unto the people--and all the people did hear and did witness of it--saying:"
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that there came a voice again unto the people, and all the people did hear, and did witness of it, saying:"

  4. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 10:4):
     EARLIER: "O ye people of these great cities which have fallen, which are a descendant of Jacob--yea, which are of the house of Israel--O ye people of the house ..."
     LATER:   "O ye people of these great cities which have fallen, which are the descendant of Jacob; yea, which are of the house of Israel; O ye people of the hous..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 10:5):
     EARLIER: "And again, how oft would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings! Yea, O ye people of the house of Israel which have falle..."
     LATER:   "And again, how oft would I have gathered you, as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings; yea, O ye people of the house of Israel, which have fal..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 10:8):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that after the people had heard these words, behold, they began to weep and howl again because of the loss of their kindreds a..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that after the people had heard these words, behold they began to weep and howl again, because of the loss of their kindred an..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 10:9):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that thus did the three days pass away. And it was in the morning, and the darkness dispersed from off the face of the land and th..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that thus did the three days pass away. And it was in the morning and the darkness dispersed from off the face of the land, and th..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 10:13):
     EARLIER: "And they were spared and were not sunk and buried up in the earth, and they were not drowned in the depths of the sea, and they were not burned by fir..."
     LATER:   "and they were spared, and were not sunk and buried up in the earth; and they were not drowned in the depths of the sea; and they were not burned by fi..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 10:16):
     EARLIER: "--yea, the prophet Zenos did testify of these things, and also Zenoch spake concerning these things--because they testified particular concerning us, ..."
     LATER:   "yea, the prophet Zenos did testify of these things, and also Zenock spake concerning these things, because they testified particular concerning us, wh..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 10:17):
     EARLIER: "Behold, our father Jacob also testified concerning a remnant of the seed of Joseph. And behold, are not we a remnant of the seed of Joseph? And these ..."
     LATER:   "Behold our father Jacob also testified concerning a remnant of the seed of Joseph. And behold, are not we a remnant of the seed of Joseph? And those t..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 10:18):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that in the ending of the thirty and fourth year, behold, I will shew unto you that the people of Nephi which were spared, and als..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that in the ending of the thirty and fourth year, behold I will shew unto you that the people of Nephi which were spared, and also..."

  12. PHRASE REMOVAL (3 Nephi 10:19):
     EARLIER: "shewing his body unto them and ministering unto them. And an account of his ministry shall be given hereafter. Therefore for this time I make an end o..."
     LATER:   "shewing his body unto them, and ministering unto them; and an account of his ministry shall be given hereafter. Therefore this time I make an end of m..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1830 Palmyra edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1830-03-26]

3 Nephi 10:1 And now behold it came to pass that all the people of the land did hear these sayings, and did witness of it. And after these sayings there was a silence in the land for the space of many hours;

3 Nephi 10:2 for so great was the astonishment of the people that they did cease lamenting and howling for the loss of their kindred which had been slain; therefore there was silence in all the land for the space of many hours.

3 Nephi 10:3 And it came to pass that there came a voice again unto the people, and all the people did hear, and did witness of it, saying:

3 Nephi 10:4 O ye people of these great cities which have fallen, which are the descendant of Jacob; yea, which are of the house of Israel; O ye people of the house of Israel, how oft have I gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and have nourished you.

3 Nephi 10:5 And again, how oft would I have gathered you, as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings; yea, O ye people of the house of Israel, which have fallen; yea, ye people of the house of Israel; ye that dwell at Jerusalem, as ye that have fallen; yea, how oft would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens, and ye would not.

3 Nephi 10:6 O ye house of Israel, whom I have spared, how oft will I gather you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, if ye will repent and return unto me with full purpose of heart.

3 Nephi 10:7 But if not, O house of Israel, the places of your dwellings shall become desolate, until the time of the fulfilling of the covenant to your fathers.

3 Nephi 10:8 And now it came to pass that after the people had heard these words, behold they began to weep and howl again, because of the loss of their kindred and friends.

3 Nephi 10:9 And it came to pass that thus did the three days pass away. And it was in the morning and the darkness dispersed from off the face of the land, and the earth did cease to tremble, and the rocks did cease to rend, and the dreadful groanings did cease, and all the tumultous noises did pass away,

3 Nephi 10:10 and the earth did cleave together again, that it stood, and the mourning, and the weeping, and the wailing of the people which were spared alive, did cease; and their mourning was turned into joy, and their lamentations into the praise and the thanksgiving unto the Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer:

3 Nephi 10:11 And thus far were the scriptures fulfilled, which had been spoken by the prophets.

3 Nephi 10:12 --And it was the more righteous part of the people which were saved, and it was they which received the prophets, and stoned them not; and it was they which had not shed the blood of the saints, which were spared;

3 Nephi 10:13 and they were spared, and were not sunk and buried up in the earth; and they were not drowned in the depths of the sea; and they were not burned by fire, neither were they fallen upon and crushed to death; and they were not carried away in the whirlwind; neither were they overpowered by the vapor of smoke and of darkness.

3 Nephi 10:14 And now whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the scriptures, let him search them, and see and behold if all these deaths and destructions by fire, and by smoke, and by tempests, and by whirlwinds, and by the opening of the earth to receive them, and all these things is not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of many of the holy prophets.

3 Nephi 10:15 Behold I say unto you yea, many have testified of these things at the coming of Christ, and were slain because they testified of these things;

3 Nephi 10:16 yea, the prophet Zenos did testify of these things, and also Zenock spake concerning these things, because they testified particular concerning us, which is the remnant of their seed.

3 Nephi 10:17 Behold our father Jacob also testified concerning a remnant of the seed of Joseph. And behold, are not we a remnant of the seed of Joseph? And those things which testifies of us, are they not written upon the plates of brass which our father Lehi brought out of Jerusalem?

3 Nephi 10:18 And it came to pass that in the ending of the thirty and fourth year, behold I will shew unto you that the people of Nephi which were spared, and also they which had been called Lamanites, which had been spared, did have great favors shew unto them, and great blessings poured out upon their heads, insomuch that soon after the ascension of Christ into Heaven, he did truly manifest himself unto them,

3 Nephi 10:19 shewing his body unto them, and ministering unto them; and an account of his ministry shall be given hereafter. Therefore this time I make an end of my sayings.
