════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — D&C Section 68, Evening and Morning Star (1832)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from Revelation Book 1 (1831-11-01) → Evening and Morning Star (1832):

  1. PHRASE ADDITION (verse 4):
     EARLIER: "shall be the mind of the Lord shall be the voice of the Lord & shall be the power of God unto Salvation"
     LATER:   "shall be the mind of the Lord; <shall be the word of the Lord; >shall be the voice of the Lord, and shall the power of God unto salvation;"
     → This adds "the word of the Lord" to the list of things that inspired speech becomes, expanding the definition of what constitutes scripture.

  2. PHRASE ADDITION (verse 6):
     EARLIER: "that I am the Son of God"
     LATER:   "that I am the Son of <the living >God"
     → This change adds the descriptive phrase "the living" to the title of God, emphasizing His active and existent nature.

  3. PHRASE ADDITION (verse 12):
     EARLIER: "to you it shall be given to seal them up unto Eternal life"
     LATER:   "to you it shall be given power to seal them up unto eternal life"
     → The addition of the word "power" clarifies that the elders are granted the specific authority or ability to perform the sealing, not just the task itself.

  4. WORD CHANGE (verse 33):
     EARLIER: "let them be had in remembrance before the judge of my people"
     LATER:   "let them <him> be had in rememberance before the judge of my people"
     → The pronoun is changed from the plural "them" to the singular "him," clarifying that the individual who does not pray is to be remembered, not a group.

════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Original text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

Revelation, 1 November 1831–A [D&C 68]
16A REVELATION, GIVEN NOVEMBER, 1831.

MY servant, Orson [Hyde], was called, by his ordinance, to proclaim the everlasting gospel, by the spirit of the living God, from people to people, and from land to land, in the congregations of the wicked, in their synagogues, reasoning with and expounding all scriptures unto them:

And behold and lo, this is an ensample unto all those who were ordained unto this priesthood, whose mission is appointed unto them to go 
forth:

And this is the ensample unto them, that they shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost;

and whatsoever they shall speak, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, shall be scripture; shall be the will of the Lord; shall be the mind of the Lord; <shall be the word of the Lord; >shall be the voice of the Lord, and shall the power of God unto salvation;

Behold this is the promise of the Lord unto you, O ye my servants:

wherefore, be of good cheer, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you; and you ye shall bear record of me even Jesus 
Christ, that I am the Son of <the living >God; that I was; that I am; and that I am to come.

This is the word of the Lord unto you my servant, Orson; and also unto my 
servant, Luke [Johnson], and unto my servant, Lyman [Johnson], and unto my servant William [E. McLellin]; and unto all the faithful elders of my church:

Go ye u<i>nto all the world; preach the gospel to every creature; acting in the authority which I have given you; baptizing in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost;

and he that believeth, and is baptized, shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned;

and he that believeth shall 
be blessed with signs following, even as it is written:

And unto you it shall be 
given to know the signs of the times, and the signs of the coming of the Son of man;

and of as many as the 
Father shall bear record, to you it shall be given power to seal them up unto eternal life: 
Amen.

And now, concerning the 
items in addition to the Laws and 
commandments, they are these:

There remaineth hereafter in the due time of the Lord, other bishops to be set apart unto the church, to minister even according to the first;

wherefore it shall be an 
high priest who is 
worthy; and he shall be appointed by a conference of high priests.

And again, no bishop or judge, which shall 
be set apart for this ministry, shall be tried or condemned for any crime, save it be before a conference of high priests;

and in as much as he is 
found guilty before a conference of highpriests, 
by testimony that 
cannot be impeached, he shall be condemned

or forgiven, according to the laws 
of the church.

And again, in as much as parents have children in Zion, 

that teach them 
not to understand the doctrine of repentance; faith in Christ the Son of the living God; and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old: the sin be upon the head of the parents,

for this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion,

and their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands:

and they also shall teach 
their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.

And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the sabbath day to keep it holy.

And the inhabitants of Zion, also, shall remember their labors, in as much as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness, for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord.

Now I the Lord am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness: They also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness.

These things ought not to 
be, and must be done away from among them: wherefore let my servant Oliver [Cowdery], carry these sayings unto the land of Zion.

And a commandment I give unto them, that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let them <him> be had in rememberance before the judge of my people.

These sayings are true and faithful: wherefore transgress them not, neither take therefrom.

Behold I am Alpha and 
Omega, and I come quickly: Amen.