D&C 67

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/revelation-circa-2-november-1831-dc-67/1

Revelation, [ Hiram Township , OH], ca. 2 Nov. 1831. Featured version, titled “71 Revelation given
Nov 2 nd . 1831,” copied [ca. Nov. 1831] in Revelation Book 1, pp. 114–115 ; handwriting of John
Whitmer ; CHL. Includes redactions. For more complete source information, see the source note for
Revelation Book 1 .

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

At a 1–2 November 1831 conference that discussed the publication of the Book of Commandments , JS
“received” a “testimony of the witnesses to the book of the Lord’s commandments .” 1 Several elders
signed the statement and, by so doing, testified that the Holy Ghost had “born record” that the
revelations “are given by inspiration of God & are profitable for all men & are verily true.” 2 At
this same conference, JS dictated this revelation, which addressed the fact that some of the elders
had not received such a spiritual conviction. That manifestation had not come, the revelation
explained, because of “fears” in the hearts of the elders. The revelation also disclosed that some
of the elders questioned the “imperfections” in the language JS used in the revelations, even though
another revelation that emerged from the conference declared that the commandments were given to
God’s “Servents in their weakness after the manner of their Language.” 3 To dispel the hesitation to
testify about the source of the revelations, this November revelation challenged the elders to write
a revelation “like unto” those dictated by JS, emphasizing that if the elders failed, they would be
justified in testifying to the world of the divine origin of JS’s revelations and condemned if they
did not so testify. The original manuscript of this revelation is not extant, but John Whitmer dated
it 2 November when he copied it into Revelation Book 1 , likely sometime before his departure for
Missouri on 20 November 1831. 4 Unlike the minutes for proceedings of the conference on 1 November,
the minutes for 2 November do not specifically mention dictation of a revelation, leaving open the
possibility that this revelation could be the one referred to in the 1 November minutes as coming
after JS “asked the conference what testimony they were willing to attach to these commandments.”
According to the minutes, several elders “arose and said that they were willing to testify to the
world that they knew that they were of the Lord.” Thereafter, a revelation was “received relative to
the same”—perhaps this revelation, despite its being dated 2 November. 5 A later JS history supports
this possibility, stating that after the dictation of the preface to the Book of Commandments on 1
November, “some conversation was had concerning Revelations and language.” The history then presents
this revelation as following that conversation. 6 Although this is a plausible scenario for the
production of the revelation, it does not explain why Whitmer then dated the document 2 November. 7
Whatever the case, it is clear that the revelation—addressed to “ye Elders of my Church who have
assembelled yourselves together”—was dictated sometime during the 1–2 November conference.

═══ REVELATION TEXT ═══

Revelation given Nov 2nd. 1831

Behold & hearken 
oh ye Elders of my Church who have assembelled yourselves together whose prayers 
I have heard & whose hearts 
desires have 
come up before me

behold & Lo mine 
eyes are upon you & 
the heavens & the 
earth are in mine hands & the riches of eternity are mine to give[.]

ye endeavour to 
believe that you ye should receive the blessing which was offered unto you but behold verily I say unto you there were fears in your hearts & verily 
this is the reason that ye did not receive

& now I the Lord 
give unto you a testimony of the truth of those commandments which I are lying before you

your eyes have been upon my Servent Joseph & his 
language you have known & his imperfections you have known & you have sought in your hearts knowlege that you 
might express beyond his language this you also know

now seek ye out of 
the Book of commandments even the least that is among them & appoint him 
that is the most wise among you

or if there be any 
among you that shall make one like unto it then ye are Justified in saying that ye do not know that is 
true

but if you cannot make one like unto it ye are under condemnation if you ye do not bear 
that it is true

for ye know that there 
is no unrighteousness in it & that which is righteous cometh down from above from the father of lights

& again verily I 
say unto you that it is your privilege & a promise I give unto you that have been ordained unto the ministry that 
in as much as ye strip yourselves from Jealesies & fears & humble yourselves before me for ye are not sufficiently humble the veil shall not be wrent & you shall see me & 
know that I am not with the carnal neither 
natural but with 
the spiritual

for no man hath seen God at any time in the flesh but 
by the Spirit 
of God

neither can any 
natural man abide the presence of God neither after the carnal mind

ye are not to able to abide the presence of God now neither the ministering of Angels wherefore continue in patience untill ye are perfected

let not your minds 
turn back & when ye 
are worthy in mine own due time ye shall see 
& know that which was confirmed <​upon you​> by the hands of my Ser[v]ant Joseph 
Amen