D&C 57 — Revelation Book 1

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Revelation Book 1' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09).
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Revelation, 20 July 1831 D&C 57 60 Commandment Given in Missorie Independence Jackson Co July 20th. 1831 giving directions to the Bishop & Agent how to proceed concerning purchuseing Lands &c. &c.

1
Hearken Oh ye Elders of my Church saith the Lord your God, Who have assembelled yourselves together, according to my commandment in this land which is the land of Missorie which is the Land which I, have appointed & consecrated for the gethering of the Saints.
2
Wherefore, this is the land of promise & the place for the City o f Zion.
3
yea thus s aith the Lord your God, If ye will receive wisdom here is wisdom. Behold the place which is now called Independence is the centre place, & the spot for the Temple is lying westward upon a lot which is not far from the court-house.
4
Wherefore it is wisdom that the land should be purchased by the saints & also every tract lying westward even unto the line runing directly between Jew & gentile
5
And also every tract bordering by the Prairies in as much as my Deciples are enabled to buy lands. Behold this is wisdom that they may obtain it for an everlasting inheritance
6
& let my Servent Sidney Gilbert stand in the office which I have appointed to receive moneys to be an agent unto the church to buy lands in all the regions round about in as much as can be in righteousness, & as wisdom shall direct.
7
And let my servent Edward Partridge stand in the office which I have appointed him to divide unto the saints their inheritance even as I have commanded & also them whom he has appointed to assist him
8
And again verily I say unto you let my servent Sidney Gilbert plant himself in this place, & establish a store that his he may sell goods without frauds that he may obtain money to buy lands for the goods of the Saints & that he may Obtain provisions & whatsoever things the Deciples may need to plant them in their inheritance
9
& also let my servents Sidney Gilbert obtain license (behold here is wisdom & whoso readeth let him understand) that he may send goods also unto the lamanites even by whom he will as clerks employed in his service
10
& thus the gospel may be preached unto them
11
And again verily I say unto you let my servent William W. Phelps also be planted in this place & be established as a Printer unto the Church
12
& lo. if the world receiveth his writings (behold this is wisdom) let him obtain whatsoever he can obtain in righteousness for the good of the saints.
13
And let my servents Oliver Cowdery assist him even as I have commanded in Whatsoever place I shall appoint unto him to copy & to correct & select &c that all things may be right before me as it shall be proved by the Spirit through him
14
& thus let those of whom I have spoken be planted in the Land of Zion as speedily as can be with their families to do these things even as I have spoken
15
And concerning the gethering let the bishop & the agent make preperations for th◊se families which have been commanded to come to this land as soon as posible & plant them in their inheritance
16
& unto the residue of both Elders & members further directions shall be given hereafter even So Amen——
