D&C 95 — Revelation Book 1

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Revelation Book 1' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09).
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Revelation, 1 June 1833 D&C 95 Revelation given Kirtland June 1, 1833

1
Verily thus saith the Lord, unto you whom I love, and whom I love I also, chasten, that their sins may be forgiven; for with the chastisements I prepare a way for their deliverance in all things out of temptation and I have loved you;
2
Therefore, ye must needs be chastened and stand rebuked before my face;
3
for ye have sinned against me a very grievious sin in that ye have not considered the great commandment in all things that I have given unto you concerning the building of mine house,
4
for the preperation wherewith I design to prepare mine apostles to prune my vineyard for the last time, that I may bring to pass my strange act, that I may pour out my spirit upon all flesh.
5
But behold verily I say unto you, there are many who have been ordained among you, whom I have called, but few of them are chosen:
6
They who are not chosen have sinned a very grievious sin in that they are walking in darkness at noon day:
7
And for this cause I gave unto you a commandment that you should call your solemn assemblies assembly, that your fasting & your mourning might come up into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth; which is by interpretation; The creator of the first day; the beginning & the end.
8
Yea, verily I say unto you, I gave unto you a commandment, that you should build an House, in the which house I design to endow those whom I have chosen, with power from on high,
9
for this is the promise of the Father unto you, Therefore, I command you to tarry even as mine apostles at Jerusalem.
10
Nevertheless my servants sinned a very grievious sin, and contentions arose in the School of the Prophets, which was very grievious unto me saith the your Lord. Therefore, I sent them forth to be chastened.
11
Verily I say unto you, it is my will that you should build an house. If ye keep my commandments ye shall have power to build it:
12
If ye keep not my commandments, the love of the Father shall not continue with you. Therefore, ye shall walk in darkness.
13
Now here is wisdom, and the mind of the Lord: Let the house be built, not after the manner of this world; for I give not unto you that ye shall live after the manner of the world.
14
Therefore, let it be built after the manner of those of you which I shall show unto those of whom ye shall appoint and ordain unto this power;
15
and the size thereof shall be fifty & five feet in width, & let it be sixty & five feet in length in the inner court thereof,
16
and let the lower part of the inner court be dedicated unto me for your Sacrament offerings, and for your preaching & your fasting & your praying & the offering up your most holy desires unto me saith your Lord.
17
And let the higher part of the inner court be dedicated unto me for the school of mine apostles, saith Son awman, or in other words, Alpha, or in other words Omegas, even Jesus Christ your Lord: Amen.
