D&C 96 — Revelation Book 1

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Revelation Book 1' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09).
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Revelation, 4 June 1833 D&C 96 Revelation given Kirtland, June 4, 1833.

1
Behold I say unto you, here is wisdom, whereby ye may know how to act concerning this matter. For it is expedient in me, that this stake that I have set for the strengthning of Zion, should be made strong.
2
Therefore, let my servant Newel K. Whitney take charge of the place which is named among you, upon which I design to build mine holy house.
3
And again, let it be divided into lots according to wisdom, for the benefit of those who seek inheritances, as it shall be determined in counsel among you.
4
Therefore, take heed that you ye see to this matter; and that portion that is necessary to benefit the Firm for the purpose of bringing forth my word to the children of men.
5
For behold verily I say unto you, this is the most expedient in me, that my word should go forth unto the children of men, for the purpose of subdueing the hearts of the children of men, for your good even so: Amen.
6
And again, verily I say unto you, it is wisdom, and expedient in me, that my servant John Johnson, whose offering I have accepted, and whose prayers I have heard, unto whom I give a promise of eternal life, inasmuch as he keepeth my commandments from henceforth,
7
for he is a decendant of Joseph, and a partaker of the blessings of the promise made unto his fathers.
8
Verily I say unto you, it is expedient in me that he should become a member of the Firm, that he may assist in bringing forth my word unto the children of men.
9
Therefore, ye shall ordain him unto this blessing, and he shall seek dilligently to take away incumberences that are upon the house named among you, that he may dwell theirin; even so, Amen
