D&C 21 — Book of Commandments, 1833

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Book of Commandments, 1833' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09). The edition's own printed verse counters are removed — line numbers are 2013 verses only.
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Chapter 22 • Revelation, 6 April 1830 D&C 21 CHAPTER XXII.

1
A Revelation to Joseph, given in Manchester, New-York, April 6, 1830. BEHOLD there s hall be record kept among you, and in it thou shalt be called a seer, a t ranslator, a p rophet, apostle of Jesus Christ, an e lder of the c hurch through the will of God the Father, and the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ;
2
B eing inspired of the Holy Ghost to lay the foundation thereof, and to build it up unto the most holy faith;
3
W hich c hurch was o rganized & and established, in the year of our Lord eighteen <h undred and t hirty, in the fourth month, >and> on the s ixth day of the month, which is called April.
4
Wherefore, meaning the c hurch, thou shalt give heed unto all his words, and commandments, which he shall give unto you, as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me:
5
F or his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all p atience and faith;
6
F or by doing these things, the gates of h ell shall not prevail against you: 7 Y ea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you; and cause the h eavens to shake for your good, and his name’s glory.
7
F or thus saith the Lord God, him have I inspired to move the cause of Zion in m ighty power for good; and his diligence I know, and his prayers I have heard:
8
Y ea, his weeping for Zion I have seen, and I will cause that h e shall mourn for her no longer, for his days of rejoicing are come unto the remission of his s ins, and the manifestations of my blessings upon his works.
9
F or behold, I will bless all those who l abor in my v ineyard, with a mighty blessing, and they shall believe on his words, which are given him through me, by the C omforter: 11 Which manifesteth that Jesus was crucified by sinful men for the sins of the world; 12 Yea, for the remission of sins unto the contrite heart.
10
W herefore, it behooveth me, that he should be ordained by you, Oliver Cowdery, mine a postle;
11
T his being an o rdinance unto you, that you are an e lder under his hand, he being the firstunto you, that you might be an e lder unto this c hurch of Christ, bearing my name;
12
And the first p reacher of this c hurch, unto the church, and before the world; yea, before the G entiles: 16 Y ea, and thus saith the Lord God, l o, l o, to the Jews, also. Amen.
