D&C 35 — Book of Commandments, 1833

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Book of Commandments, 1833' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09). The edition's own printed verse counters are removed — line numbers are 2013 verses only.
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Chapter 37 • Revelation, 7 December 1830 D&C 35 CHAPTER XXXVII. A Revelation to Joseph, and Sidney Rigdon, given in Fayette, New-York, December, 1830.

1
LISTEN to the voice of the Lord your God, even Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, whose course is one eternal round, the same today as yesterday and forever.
2
I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who was crucified for the sins of the w orld, even as many as will believe on my name, that they may become the sons of God, even one in me as I am in the Father, as the Father is one in me, that we may be one.
3
Behold, v erily, v erily I say unto you my s ervant Sidney, I have looked upon thee and thy works. 4 I have heard thy prayers and have prepared thee for a greater work.
4
T hou art blessed for thou shalt do great things. 6 Behold thou wast sent forth, even as John, to prepare the way before me, and before Elijah which should come, and thou knew it not.
5
T hou didst baptize by water unto r epentance, but they received not the Holy Ghost;
6
but now I give unto thee a commandment, that thou shalt b aptize by water, and they shall receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, even as the a postles of old.
7
And it shall come to pass, that there shall be a great work in the land even among the G entiles, for their folly and their abominations shall be made manifest, in the eyes of all p eople:
8
F or I am God and mine arm is not shortened and I will show miracles, signs a nd wonders, unto all those who believe on my name.
9
And whoso shall ask it in my name, in faith, they shall cast out d evils; they shall heal the sick; they shall cause the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak, and the lame to walk:
10
And the time speedily cometh, the great things are to be shown forth unto the children of men:
11
B ut without faith shall not any thing be shown forth except desolations upon Babylon, the same which has made all n ations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
12
A nd there are none that doeth good except those who are ready to receive the fullness of my g ospel, which I have sent forth to this generation:
13
Wherefore, I have called upon the weak things of the world, those who are unlearned and despised, to thresh the n ations by the p ower of my Spirit:
14
And their arm shall be mine arm, and I will be their shield and their b uckler, and I will gird up their loins, and they shall fight manfully for me: 16 A nd their enemies shall be under their feet; and I will let fall the sword in their behalf; and by the fire of mine indignation will I preserve them.
15
And the poor and the meek shall have the Ggospel preached unto them, and they shall be looking forth for the time of my coming, for it is nigh at hand:
16
And they shall learn the p arable of the fig-tree: for even now already summer is nigh,
17
and I have sent forth the fulness of my gospel by the hand of my servant Joseph: 19 And in weakness have I blessed him,
18
and I have given unto him the k eys of the mystery of those things which have been sealed, even things which were from the foundation of the world, and the things which shall come from this time until the time of my coming, if he abide in me, and if not, another will I plant in his stead.
19
Wherefore watch over him that his faith fail not, and it shall be given by the C omforter, the Holy Ghost, that knoweth all things:
20
A nd a commandment I give unto thee, that thou shalt write for him: 22 And the scriptures shall be given even as they are in mine own bosom, to the salvation of mine own elect:
21
F or they will hear my voice, and shall see me, and shall not be asleep, and shall abide the day of my coming, for they shall be purified even as I am pure.
22
And now say unto you, tarry with him and he shall j ourney with you; forsake him not and surely these things shall be fulfilled.
23
And inasmuch as ye do not write, behold it shall be given unto him to prophesy. 25 And thou shalt p reach my gospel, and call on the h oly p rophets to prove his words, as they shall be given him.
24
K eep all the commandments and covenants by which ye are bound, and I will cause the h eavens to shake for your g ood: 27 And satan shall tremble; and Zion shall rejoice upon the hills, and flourish;
25
and Israel shall be saved in mine own due time. 28 And by the k eys which I have given, shall they be led and no more be confounded at all.
26
L ift up your hearts and be g lad: your redemption draweth nigh.
27
F ear not little flock, the k ingdom is yours until I come. 31 Behold I come quickly; even so: A men.
