D&C 52 — Book of Commandments, 1833

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Book of Commandments, 1833' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09). The edition's own printed verse counters are removed — line numbers are 2013 verses only.
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Chapter 54 • Revelation, 6 June 1831 D&C 52 CHAPTER LIV. A Revelation to the elders of the church assembled in Kirtland, Ohio, given June, 1831.

1
BEHOLD, thus saith the Lord unto the e lders whom he hath called and chosen, in these last days, by the voice of his Spirit,
2
saying, I the Lord will make known unto you what I will that ye shall do from this time until the next conference, which shall be held in Missouri, upon the land which I will consecrate unto my p eople, which are a remnant of Jacob, and them who are heirs according to the covenant.
3
W herefore, verily I say unto you, let my s ervants Joseph and Sidney Rigdon take their j ourney soon as preparations can be made to leave their homes, and j ourney to the land of Missouri.
4
A nd inasmuch as they are faithful unto me, it shall be made known unto them what they shall do:
5
A nd it shall also, inasmuch as they are faithful, be made known unto them the land of your inheritance.
6
And inasmuch as they are not faithful, they shall be cut off, even as I will, seemeth me good.
7
And again, verily I say unto you, let my s ervant Lyman (Wight,) and my s ervant John (Corrill,) take their journey speedily:
8
And also my s ervant John (Murdock) and my servant Hyram [Smith, take their j ourney unto the s ame place by the way of Detroit.
9
And let them j ourney from thence preaching the word by the way, saying none other things than that which the prophets and a postles have written, and that which is t aught them by the Comforter, through the prayer of faith.
10
L et them go two by two, and thus let them p reach by the way in every congregation, b aptizing by water, and the laying on of the hands by the water side:
11
F or thus saith the L ord, I will cut my work short in righteousness: 11 For the days cometh that I will send forth j udgment unto victory.
12
And let my s ervant Lyman beware, for s atan desireth to sift him as c haff.
13
And behold, he that is faithful shall be made ruler over many things.
14
And again, I will give unto you pattern in all things, that ye may not be deceived, for s atan is abroad in the land, and he goeth forth deceiving the n ations:
15
W herefore he that prayeth whose spirit is contrite, the same is accepted of me, if he obey mine ordinances:
16
H e that speaketh, whose spirit is contrite, whose language is meek, and edifieth, the s ame is of God, if he obey mine ordinances.
17
And again, he that trembleth under my power, shall be made strong, and shall bring forth fruits of p raise, and wisdom, according to the r evelations, and truths which I have given you.
18
And again, he that is overcome and bringeth not forth fruits, even according to this p attern, is not of me:
19
W herefore by this p attern ye shall know the spirits in all cases, under the whole h eavens.
20
And the days have come, according to men’s faith it shall be done unto them.
21
B ehold this commandment is given unto all the e lders whom I have chosen.
22
And again, verily I say unto you, let my s ervant Thomas B. Marsh, and my servant Ezra Thayer, take their j ourney also, preaching the word by the way, unto this same land.
23
And again, let my servant Isaac Morley and my servant Ezra (Booth,) take their journey, also preaching the word by the way un to the same land.
24
And again, let my s ervant Edward Partridge and Martin Harris take their j ourney with my servants Sidney and Joseph.
25
L et my s ervant David Whitmer and Harvey Whitlock, also take their journey, and preach by the way unto this same land.
26
L et my servants Parley P. Pratt and Orson (Pratt) take their j ourney, and p reach by the way, even unto this same land.
27
And let my s ervants Solomon Hancock and Simeon Carter, also take their journey unto this same land, and preach by the way.
28
L et my s ervants Edson Fuller and Jacob (Scott,) also take their j ourney.
29
L et my servants Levi Hancock and Zebidee Zebedee Coltrin, also take their j ourney.
30
L et my s ervants Reynolds Cahoon and Samuel Smith, also take their journey.
31
L et my s ervants Wheeler Baldwin and W illiam (Carter,) also take their j ourney.
32
And let my servants Newel (Knight) and Selah Griffin, both be ordained and also take their j ourney:
33
Y ea, verily I say, let all these take their j ourney unto one p lace, in their s everal courses, and one man shall not build upon another’s foundation, neither j ourney into another’s track.
34
H e that is faithful, the same shall be kept and blessed with much fruit.
35
And again, I say unto you, let my servant Joseph (Wakefield) and Solomon (Humphrey Jr.,) take their j ourney into the eastern lands.
36
L et them labor with their families, declaring none other things than the p rophets and a postles, that which they have seen, and heard, and most as suredly believe, that the p rophecies may be fulfilled.
37
I n consequence of transgression, let that which was bestowed upon Heman Bassett, be taken from him, and placed upon the head of Simonds Rider.
38
A nd again, verily I say unto you, let Jared Carter be ordained priest, and also George James be ordained priest.
39
L et the residue of the e lders watch over the c hurches, and declare the word in the regions among them. 40 And let them labor with their own hands, that there be no i dolatry nor wickedness practiced.
40
And remember in all things, the poor and the n eedy, the s ick and the afflicted, for he that doeth not these things, the same is not my disciple.
41
And again, let my s ervants Joseph and Sidney and Edward, take with them a recommend from the c hurch. 42 And let there be one obtained for my s ervant Oliver Cowdery, also:
42
And thus, even as I have said, if ye are faithful, ye shall assemble yourselves together to rejoice upon the land of Missouri, which is the land of your inheritance, which is now the land of your enemies.
43
B ut behold I the Lord will hasten the city in its time; 45 And will crown the faithful with joy and with rejoicing.
44
Behold I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and I will lift them up at the last day; even so: Amen.
