D&C 33 — Book of Commandments, 1833

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Book of Commandments, 1833' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09). The edition's own printed verse counters are removed — line numbers are 2013 verses only.
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Chapter 35 • Revelation, October 1830–B D&C 33 CHAPTER XXXV. <A Revelation to Ezra Thayer, and Northrop Sweet, given in Fayette, New-York, October, 1830.

1
BEHOLD I say unto you, my servants Ezra, and Northrop, open ye your ears and hearken to the voice of the Lord your God, whose word is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of the j oints and marrow, s oul and spirit; and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.
2
F or v erily, v erily I say unto you, that ye are called to lift up your voices as with the sound of trump, to declare my g ospel unto crooked and a perverse generation:
3
F or b ehold the field is white already to harvest; and it is the e leventh hour, and for the last time that I shall call laborers into my vineyard.
4
And my vineyard has become corrupted every whit: and there is none which doeth good save it be a few; and they err in many instances, because of p riestcrafts, all having corrupt minds.
5
And v erily, v erily I say unto you, that this c hurch have I established and called forth out of the w ilderness:
6
And even so will I gather mine elect from the four quarters of the e arth, even as many as will believe in me, and hearken unto my voice:
7
Y ea, v erily, v erily I say unto you, that the field is white already to harvest: 7 Wherefore thrust in your sickles, and reap with all your might, mind, and strength.
8
O pen your mouths and they shall be filled; and you shall become even as Nephi of old, who journeyed from Jerusalem in the wilderness:
9
Y ea, open your mouths and spare not, and you shall be laden with sheaves upon your b acks, for lo I am with you:
10
Y ea, o pen your mouths and they shall be filled, saying Repent, repent and prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths strait: for the k ingdom of heaven is at hand:
11
Y ea, r epent and baptized every one of you, for a remission of your sins; yea, be baptized even by water, and then cometh the b aptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost.
12
Behold, v erily, v erily I say unto you, this is my g ospel, and r emember that they shall have faith in me, or they can in no wise be saved:
13
A nd upon this Rock I will build my c hurch; yea, upon this Rock ye are built, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against you;
14
and ye shall remember the c hurch a rticles and c ovenants to keep them:
15
A nd whoso having faith you shall confirm in my c hurch, by the laying on of the hands, and I will bestow the gift of the Holy Ghost upon them.
16
A nd the book of Mormon, and the holy scriptures, are given of me for your instruction; and the power of my S pirit quickeneth all things:
17
Wherefore be faithful, praying always, having your lamps trimmed and burning, and oil with you, that you may be r eady at the coming of the Bridegroom;
18
for b ehold, verily, v erily I say unto you, that I come quickly; even so: A men.
