D&C 95 — Revelation Book 2

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Revelation Book 2' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09).
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Revelation, 1 June 1833 D&C 95 Kirtland June 1st. 1833—

1
Verily thus saith the Lord unto you whom I love, and whom I love I also chasten that their sins may be forgiven, for with the chastisement I prepare a way for their deliverance in all things out of temptation and I have loved you
2
therefore ye must needs be chastned and stand rebuked before my face.
3
for ye have sinned against me a verry grievous sin in that ye have not considered the great commandment in all things that I have given unto you concerning the building of mine house
4
for the preparation wherewith I deign to prepare mine Apostles to prune my vineyard for the last time that I may bring to pass my strange act that I may pour out my spirit upon all flesh.
5
But behold verily I say unto you there are many who have been ordained among you whom I called but few of them are chosen.
6
they who are not chosen have sinned a verry grievous sin in that they are walking in darkness at noon day,
7
and for this cause I gave unto you a commandment that you should call your solem assembly that your fastings and your mourning might come up into the ears of the Lord of sabaoth which is by interpretation the creator of all things the first day the beginning and the end.
8
Yea verily I say unto you I gave unto you a commandment that you should build an house in the which house I design to endow those whom I have chosen with power from on high,
9
for this is the promise of the Father unto you. Therefore, I commanded you to tarry even as mine Apostles at Jerusalem.
10
nevertheless my servants sinned a verry grievous sin and contentions arose in the school of the prophets, which was verry grievous unto me saith your Lord. therefore I sent them forth to be chastened.
11
Verily I say unto you, it is my will that you should build an house. If ye keep my commandments ye shall have power to build it.
12
If ye keep not my commandments the love of the father shall not continue with you therefore ye shall walk in darkness.
13
now here is wisdom and the mind of the Lord, Let the house be built not after the manner of this the world. for I give not unto you that ye shall live after the manner of the world.
14
Therefore let it be built after the manner which I shall show unto three of you whom ye shall appoint and ordain unto this power
15
and the size thereof shall be fifty and five feet in width and let it be sixty and five feet in length in the inner court thereof,
16
and let the lower part of the inner court thereof be dedicated unto me for your sacrament offering and for your preaching and your fasting and your praying and the offering up your most holy desires unto me saith your lord,
17
and let the higher part of the inner court be dedicated unto me for the school of mine Apostles saith Son Ah Man, or in other words Alphas, or in other words Omegas even Jesus Christ your lord Amen.
