D&C 9 — Book of Commandments, 1833

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Book of Commandments, 1833' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09). The edition's own printed verse counters are removed — line numbers are 2013 verses only.
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Chapter 8 • Revelation, April 1829–D D&C 9 CHAPTER VIII.

1
A Revelation given to Oliver Cowdery, in Harmony, Pennsylvania, April, 1829. BEHOLD I say unto you, my son, that, because you did not t ranslate according to that which you desired of me, and did commence again to write for my servant Joseph, even so I would that you s hould continue until you have finished this r ecord, which I have i ntrusted unto you:
2
and then b ehold, other r ecords have I, that I will give unto you power that you may assist translate.
3
B e patient my s on, for it is wisdom in me, and it is not expedient that you should translate at this present time.
4
Behold the work which you are called to do, is to write for my servant Joseph;
5
and b ehold it is because that you did not continue as you commenced, when you begun translate, that I have taken away this privilege from you.
6
D o not murmur my s on, for it is wisdom in me that I have dealt with you in this manner.
7
Behold you have not understood, you have s upposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought, save it was to ask me;
8
but b ehold I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right, I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you: therefore, you shall feel that it is right;
9
but if it be not right, you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought, that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong: therefore, you cannot write that which is sacred, save it be given you from me.
10
Now if you had known this, you could have translated: nevertheless, it is not expedient that you should translate now.
11
Behold it was expedient when you commenced, but you feared and the time is past, that it is not expedient now:
12
for, do you not behold that I have given unto my servant Joseph sufficient strength, whereby it is made up? and neither of you have I condemned.
13
Do this thing which I have commanded you, and you shall prosper. Be faithful, and yield to no temptation.
14
Stand fast in the work wherewith I have called you, and a hair of your head shall not be lost, and you shall be lifted up at the last day: Amen.
