D&C 39 — Book of Commandments, 1833

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Book of Commandments, 1833' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09). The edition's own printed verse counters are removed — line numbers are 2013 verses only.
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Chapter 41 • Revelation, 5 January 1831 D&C 39 CHAPTER XLI. A Revelation to James (Covel,) given in Fayette, New-York, January, 1831.

1
HEARKEN and listen to the voice of him who is from all eternity to all eternity, the Great I AM, even Jesus Christ,
2
the light and the life of the world; a light which shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not:
3
T he same which came in the meridian of time unto my own, and my own r eceived me not;
4
but to as many as received me, gave I power to become my s ons, and even so will I give unto as many as will r eceive me, power to become my s ons.
5
And v erily, v erily I say unto you, he that receiveth my g ospel, r eceiveth me; and he that receiveth not my gospel, receiveth not me.
6
And this is my g ospel: Repentance and b aptism by water, and then c ometh the b aptism of fire and the Holy G host, even the C omforter, which showeth all things, and teacheth the peaceable things of the k ingdom.
7
And now b ehold I say unto you, my servant James, I have looked upon thy works and I know thee:
8
And verily I say unto thee, thine heart is now right before me at this time, and b ehold I have bestowed great blessings upon thy head:
9
Nevertheless thou hast seen great s orrow, for thou hast rejected me many times because of pride, and the cares of the world:
10
B ut behold the days of thy deliverance are come. 9 A rise and be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on my name and you shall receive my S pirit, and a blessing so great as you never have known.
11
And if thou do this, I have prepared thee for a greater work. 10 T hou shalt p reach the fulness of my g ospel which I have sent forth in these last days; the covenant which I have sent forth to recover my p eople, which are of the house of Israel.
12
And it shall come to pass that power shall rest upon thee; thou shalt have great faith and I will be with thee and go before thy face.
13
T hou art called to l abor in my v ineyard, and to build up my c hurch, and to bring forth Zion, that it may r ejoice upon the hills and flourish.
14
Behold, v erily, v erily I say unto thee, thou art not called to go in to the e astern countries, but thou art called to go to the Ohio.
15
And in asmuch as my p eople shall assemble themselves to the Ohio, I have kept in store a blessing such as is not known among the children of men, and it shall be poured forth upon their heads. 15 And from thence men shall go forth into all n ations.
16
Behold, verily, v erily I say unto you, that the people in Ohio call upon me in much faith, thinking I will stay my hand in j udgment upon the n ations, but I can not deny my word:
17
Wherefore lay to with your might and call faithful l aborers into my vineyard, that it may be pruned for the last time.
18
And inasmuch as they do r epent and receive the fulness of my g ospel, and become sanctified, I will stay mine hand in j udgment:
19
W herefore go forth, crying with a loud voice, saying, The k ingdom of h eaven is at hand; crying Hosanna! blessed be the name of the most high God.
20
G o forth b aptizing with water, preparing the way before my face, for the time of my coming;
21
for the time is at hand: 21 The day nor the hour no man knoweth, but it surely shall come,
22
and he that r eceiveth these things receiveth me; and they shall be gathered unto me in time and in eternity.
23
A nd again, it shall come to pass, that on as many as ye shall baptize with water, ye shall lay your hands, and they shall receive the gift of the Holy G host, and shall be looking forth for the signs of my coming, and shall know me.
24
Behold I come quickly; even so: Amen.
