D&C 24 — Book of Commandments, 1833

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Book of Commandments, 1833' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09). The edition's own printed verse counters are removed — line numbers are 2013 verses only.
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Chapter 25 • Revelation, July 1830–A D&C 24 CHAPTER XXV. 1 A Revelation to Joseph, and also to Oliver Cowdery, given in Harmony, Pennsylvania, July, 1830.

1
BEHOLD thou wast called and c hosen to write the b ook of Mormon, and to my ministry; 2 And I have lifted thee up out of thine afflictions, and have counseled thee, that thou hast been delivered from all thine enemies, and thou hast been delivered from the powers of satan, and from darkness!
2
Nevertheless, thou art not excusable in thy t ransgressions; n evertheless go thy way and sin no more.
3
M agnify thine office; And after thou hast sowed thy fields and secured them go speedily unto the church, which is in Colesville, Fayette and Manchester, and they shall support thee; and I will bless them both spiritually and temporally;
4
B ut if they receive thee not, I will send upon them a cursing instead of a blessing.
5
A nd thou shalt continue in calling upon God in my name, and writing the t hings which shall be given thee by the Comforter; 8 And expounding all scriptures unto the c hurch,
6
and it shall be given thee in the very moment, what thou shalt speak and write; 9 And they shall hear it, or I will send unto them a cursing instead of a blessing:
7
F or thou shalt devote all thy service in Zion. 11 And in this thou shalt have strength.
8
B e patient in afflictions, for thou shalt have many: 13 B ut endure them, for lo, I am with you, even unto the end of thy days.
9
And in temporal labors thou shalt not have strength, for this is not thy calling. 15 A ttend to thy calling and thou shalt have wherewith to magnify thine o ffice, and to expound all scriptures. 16 And continue in the laying on of the hands, and confirming the c hurches.
10
And thy brother Oliver s hall continue in bearing my name before the world; and also to the church. 18 And he shall not suppose that he can say enough in my cause; 19 And lo I am with him to the end.
11
I n me he shall have glory, and not of himself, whether in weakness or in strength, whether in bonds or free:
12
And at all times and in all places, he shall open his mouth and declare my g ospel as with the voice of trump, both day and night. 22 And I will give unto him strength such as is not known among men.
13
R equire not m iracles, except I shall command you; except casting out d evils; healing the sick; and against s erpents; and against deadly p oisons:
14
And these things ye shall not do, except it be required of you, by them who desire it, that the s criptures might be fulfilled, for ye shall do according to that which is written.
15
And in whatsoever place ye shall enter, and they receive you not, in my name, ye shall leave a cursing instead of a blessing, by casting off the dust of your feet against them as a testimony, and cleansing your feet by the wayside.
16
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall lay their hands upon you by violence, ye shall command to be smitten in my name, and behold I will smite them according to your words, in mine own due time.
17
And whosoever shall go to law with thee shall be cursed by the l aw.
18
A nd thou shalt take no purse, nor scrip, neither staves, neither two c oats, for the church shall give unto thee in the very hour what thou needest for food, and for raiment, and for shoes, and for m oney, and for scrip:
19
F or thou art called to prune my vineyard with a mighty pruning, yea, even for the last time. 30 Yea, and also, all those whom thou hast ordained. 31 And they shall do even according to this pattern. Amen.
