D&C 28 — Book of Commandments, 1833

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Book of Commandments, 1833' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09).
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Chapter 30 • Revelation, September 1830–B D&C 28 CHAPTER XXX. 1 A Revelation to Oliver Cowdery, given in Fayette, New-York, September, 1830.

1
BEHOLD I say unto you, Oliver, that it shall be given unto thee, that thou shalt be heard by the c hurch, in all things w hatsoever thou shalt teach them by the Comforter, concerning the r evelations and commandments which I have given.
2
But b ehold, v erily, v erily I say unto you, no one shall be appointed to receive commandments and r evelations in this c hurch, excepting my s ervant Joseph, for he r eceiveth them even as Moses:
3
And thou shalt be obedient unto the things which I shall give unto him, e ven as Aaron, to declare faithfully the commandments and the r evelations, with power and authority unto the c hurch.
4
And if thou art led at any time by the C omforter to speak or teach, or at all times by way of c ommandment unto the c hurch, thou mayest do it.
5
But thou shalt not write by way of c>ommandment, but by wisdom:
6
And thou shalt not command him who is at thy head, and at the head of the c hurch,
7
for I have given him the keys of the mysteries and the r evelations which are sealed, until I shall appoint unto them another in his stead.
8
7 And now, b ehold I say unto you, that you shall go unto the Lamanites and p reach my gospel unto them, and cause my c hurch to be established among them. And thou shalt have r evelations but write them not by way of c ommandment.
9
8 And n ow b ehold I say unto you, that it is not r evealed, and no man knoweth where the c ity shall be built, b ut it shall be given hereafter. 9 Behold I say unto you, that it shall be on the borders by the Lamanites.
10
T hou shalt not leave this place until after the c onference, and my servant Joseph shall be appointed to rule the conference by the voice of it, and what he saith to thee, that thou shalt tell.
11
And again, thou shalt take thy b rother Hiram Page b etween him and thee alone, and tell him that those things which he hath written from that s tone are not of me, and that satan deceiveth him:
12
F or b ehold these things have not been appointed unto him: 13 Neither shall any thing be appointed unto any of this c hurch contrary to the c hurch c ovenants,
13
for all things must be done in order and by c ommon consent in the c hurch, by the prayer of faith.
14
And thou shalt settle all these things according to the c ovenants of the c hurch before thou shalt take thy j ourney among the Lamanites.
15
And it shall be given thee from the time that thou shalt go, until the time that thou shalt return, what thou shalt do.
16
And thou must open thy mouth at all times declaring my g ospel with the sound of r ejoicing.— A men.
