Minutes and Discourse, circa 7 July 1834

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-circa-7-july-1834/1
Date: July 7, 1834
Handwriting: Handwriting of Levi Richards and Ebenezer Robinson

Minutes and Discourse, , MO, ca. 7 July 1834. Featured version copied [between ca. 6 Apr. and 19 June 1838] in Minute Book 2, pp. 43–45; handwriting of and ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Minute Book 2.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

At a 3 July 1834 meeting of , those present organized a standing in , designating three men as presidents of that council and twelve men as counselors. The organization of the council was completed at a meeting held a few days later, at which time JS the selected individuals to their positions. During the meeting, the council also deliberated on some items of business. The date of this meeting is not entirely clear. According to the minutes of the 3 July meeting, the council was to meet on Monday, 8 July. However, 8 July was actually a Tuesday. The existing minutes of the meeting provide a date of 7 July, which is corroborated by a letter written on 30 July 1834 that includes this phrase: “the high council of the organized by the will of God on the 7th of July 1834.” A later JS history also gives the date as 7 July. But and , both of whom attended the meeting, dated it as 8 July. Although it is likely that the meeting was held on 7 July, it is also possible that it occurred the following day.
The circa 7 July meeting of the council, which was held at ’s house, followed in large part the same format as a 19 February 1834 meeting of the , Ohio, high council, at which the “form, and constitution of the high Council” were approved. At that gathering, sixty-two church members voted unanimously to accept the constitution, after which JS instructed the Kirtland high council and then “laid his hands upon the twelve counsellors and commanded a blessing to rest upon them.” and also blessed their sons who were members of the council, and then the council considered its first case. Similarly, in the circa 7 July meeting, after JS addressed the council, those present voted to accept those who were appointed to their positions. According to the minutes, JS then ordained the council members, after which blessed his sons , , and , and blessed his son . Afterward, the council decided that and David Whitmer—two of the newly appointed presidents of the council—should go to Kirtland, a decision that indicated the high council was to deal with administrative matters, as well as serve as an appellate court and disciplinary body.
—the third president of the Missouri high council—had been designated by a 23 June 1834 council to go to , a decision that the high council reaffirmed. Such travels would deprive Missouri church members of their new leaders for a time, but JS explained in an August 1834 letter that he considered it urgent that the “first Elders” of the church obtain an of power in Kirtland and that they “lift up a warning voice and . . . proclaim the everlasting gospel” as they traveled to Ohio. As mandated in a 22 June 1834 revelation, the endowment of power needed to happen before could be redeemed, and JS apparently hoped that by preaching with “every convincing proof and facculty with this generation,” the “first Elders” could help “awaken the sympathy of the people” to the plight of the Missouri Saints who had been driven from their homes in .
Later accounts of the circa 7 July meeting indicate that JS may have also appointed as his successor in leading the church—something that is not mentioned in the minutes. At a 15 March 1838 meeting in , Missouri, JS gave participants “a history of the ordination of David Whitmer, which took place in July 1834, to be a leader, or a prophet to this Church, which (ordination) was on conditions that he (J. Smith jr) did not live to God himself.” , writing over thirty-five years later in an effort to prove Whitmer’s legitimacy as a prophet, provided more detail. According to McLellin, at the circa 7 July council, JS said that “the time has come when I must appoint my successor in office,” and “DAVID WHITMER IS THE MAN.” McLellin stated that Whitmer was then ordained “to be Prophet, Seer, Revelator, Translator, and President of the Church.” But the circa 7 July minutes themselves refer to Whitmer only as “the President of the Church in Zion” and the “President, head and leader in Zion (in the absence of br. Joseph Smith jr.).” As such, Whitmer assumed a role that , in Zion, had been fulfilling. Regardless of whether Whitmer was appointed to be JS’s successor, the minutes indicate that JS believed the organization of the council with its presidents fulfilled a divine mandate; he later stated that the work he did in Missouri “established this church on a permanent foundation.” “If I had been taken away,” he continued, “it would have been enough.”
served as clerk of the council and took its minutes, though his original inscription has not been located. In 1838, and copied the minutes into Minute Book 2.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

July 7th 1834.
Agreeable to adjournment the assembled at the house of — and opened the meeting by singing,— age after age has rowled away, &c. and prayer by Joseph Smith jun. Present fifteen ,— eight , four , eight , three ,— together with A number of Members
After which br. Joseph Smith jun proceeded to give the Council such instruction (relative to their high calling) as would enable them to proceed and minister in their office— agreeable to the pattern given heretofore;— also read to them the [p. 43]

Revelation speaking on the subject— He also informed them if he should now be taken away that he had accomplished the great work which the Lord had laid before him, and that which he had desired of the Lord, and that he now had done his duty in organizing the , through which Council the will of the Lord might be known on all importent occasions in the building up of , and establishing truth in the earth.
A vote was then taken whether the brethren that were appointed on the 3rd of July should stand according to appoinment. The vote was clear in their behalf.
Br. Joseph Smith jr. then proceeded and the three . as President and & assistants and their twelve Counsellors.
The twelve Counsellors then proceeded to cast lots to know who should speak first, and the order in which they should speak which is as follows:
No. 1 No. 2. " 3. " 4. " 5 " 6. " 7. " 8 " 9. " 10 " 11 " 12 After which came forward and blessed three of his sons in the name of the Lord Viz: , & . And also blessed his son in the name of the Lord.
After the council of High Priests were organized the , came forward and stated to the Council that a greater responsibility devolved upon him than before as he had not the privilege of counselling with any of the high council save one of the Presidents and his own Counsellors, and desired to have the prayers of all the Church that he might be able to act in his station in righteousness.
After which br. Joseph Smith jr. laid the case of before the council to have their descision whether he should take his family to and when it shall be wisdom for him to go. As it has been deemed necessary for him to go and assist in the printing establishment. [p. 44]

Nominated voted and carried that four of the Counsellors shall speak on the subject, two on each side. Viz: & on the side of the plaintif, and & in behalf of the . After they had said on this subject all they had to say, the Presidnt descided that it is the duty of Br. to go to to assist in the printing business and that his family remain in this region of country and that he have an honorable discharge of his station in this place for a season (as soon as he can accomplish his business in this place) signed by the & .
Proposed by br. that br. the of the Church in should go to as being one of the three witnesses and assist in promoting the cause of Christ.
The case was argued by br. & in behalf of the Plantiff, and & for the church. And after their pleadings it was descided that br. go to the East and assist in the great work of the and be his own Judge, as to leaving his family or taking them with him. And also that and go to the East. all the above named brethrn to prepare and go as soon as convenient
After all this was done the afore mentioned , , , . & Members covenanted with uplifted hands to heaven that they would uphold Br. as President, head and leader in Zion (in the absence of br. Joseph Smith jr.) and & as assistant Presidents and Counsellors, also covenanted to uphold him and one another at the throne of grace.
Council closed. Prayer by President.
Clerk. [p. 45]