Minutes and Discourse, 21 April 1834

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-21-april-1834/1
Date: April 21, 1834
Handwriting: Handwriting of Orson Hyde

Minutes and Discourse, , Medina Co., OH, 21 Apr. 1834. Featured version copied [between ca. late Apr. and 5 May 1834] in Minute Book 1, pp. 43–47; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Minute Book 1.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 21 April 1834, in , Ohio, JS presided over a of that focused on the necessity of redeeming . This conference had a clear millenarian theme, with sermons indicating that Jesus Christ’s second coming was near and that the inhabitants of the earth needed to repent and gather to Zion in order to be saved. JS and other participants explained that it was imperative for church members to assist the Saints who had been expelled from , Missouri, so Zion could be reclaimed and reoccupied. Such assistance could take two forms: volunteering to go with JS and others on an expedition to or donating money to provision those volunteers. Without such aid, JS stated, Zion would not be redeemed and all of the church would be “persecuted and destroyed in like manner.” JS’s journal notes that “some few volunteered to go to Zion, and others donated $66.37. for the benefit of the scattered breth[r]en in Zion.”
JS also spoke at the conference about some of the foundational events of the church, topics he rarely discussed in public, including the of the Book of Mormon and the “revelation” of both the , or the lesser priesthood, and the . His presentation of these topics largely followed the history he wrote in summer 1832. then spoke on the necessity of redeeming Zion, the construction of the in , Ohio, and the of power that would come after the house was built.
Before the conclusion of the conference, the participants conducted a trial of Thomas Tripp, a church member accused of improprieties with various women. After voting to exclude Tripp from the church, the meeting concluded with the blessing of children by JS and the administration of the . According to JS’s journal, the conference was “a glorious time.”
As clerk of the conference, kept the minutes. later copied the minutes into Minute Book 1.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Medina Co. Ohio April 21, 1834.
This day a of the of the assembled at the dwelling house of bro. Carpenters at 10 o’clock A.M.
Opened by singing, “How firm a foundation, &c.” Bro. Joseph Smith Junr. read the 2nd. chapter of the prophecy of Joel & took the lead in prayer; after which, he commenced addressing the congregation, as follows. It is very difficult for us to communicate to the churches all that God has revealed to us, in consequence of tradition; for we are differently situated from any other people that ever existed upon this earth: Consequently [p. 43]

those former revelations cannot be suited to our condition, because they were given to other people who were before us; but in the last days, God was to call a remnant, in which was to be deliverance, as well as in Jerusalem, and Zion. Now, if God should give no more revelations, where will we find Zion and this remnant? He said that the time was near when desolation was to cover the Earth, and then God would have a place of deliverance in his remnant, and in Zion, &c. He then gave a relation of obtaining and the Book of Mormon, the revelation of the , the organization of the in the year 1830, the revelation of the , and the gift of the Holy Spirit poured out upon the church, &c. Take away the book of Mormon, and the revelations, and where is our religion? We have none; for without a Zion and a place of deliverance, we must fall, because the time is near when the sun will be darkened, the moon turn to blood, the stars fall from heaven and the earth reel to and fro; then if this is the case, if we are not sanctified and to the places where God has appointed, our former professions and our great love for the bible, we must fall, we cannot stand, we cannot be saved; for God will gather out his saints from the and then comes desolation or destruction and none can escape except the pure in heart who are gathered, &c.
Bro. then addressed the upon certain items lying immediately before the brethren: He said, that on two points hang all the revelations which have ever been given, which are the two advents of the Messiah. The first one is past, and the second is now just before us, and consequently those who desire a part in this era which the angels desired to look into, have to be assembled with the saints; for if they are not gathered, they must wail because of [p. 44]

his coming. There is no part of his creation which will not feel a shock at this grand display of power; for the Ancient saints will reign with christ a Thousand years. The saints will dwell under that reign, and those who are not gathered may expect to endure his wrath that length of time; for the rest of the dead are not to live again till the thousand years are ended. He said that he could deliver a prophecy to the brethren and sisters, not that he stood before them in the attitude of a prophet any farther then he was warranted by the written revelations of God. He said it was in vain for men in this generation to think of laying up and providing inheritances for their children except they laid it up in the place where deliverance was appointed by the voice of God; for those were to be the days of vengeance, as were in the days of Jeremiah; because, before his eyes were closed in death, the Jews were led captives and the land posessed by another people; and so in this day, while the father was laying up Gold for his son, the destroyer may lay him lifeless at his own feet, and where then is all his treasure? Therefore, if we, the islands of the seas, and all the ends of the earth, desire an inheritance for ourselves themselves and their children and our children, it must be obtained where God has appointed the places of deliverance. He then noticed the former covenants to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob & others of the ancients, which were to be realized in the last days, &c. After which he said there were now three great items which he would proceed to speak upon more particularly at present, which were, The deliverance of Zion. The of the with power from on high according to former promises; and the spreading of the word of the Lord to the four winds. He then took up the first, and gave a hint upon the great weight and importance resting upon the saints [p. 45]

in the last days, and then gave a statement of the situation of the affairs of the brethern in , and then took up the revelation given; requireing the saints to go up for the deliverance of those who had been driven from their , and urged the importance of an obedience to the same by those who could go, & those who could not go, should help those who are going to means for their expenses.
Bro. then occupied a few minutes in giveing a relation of the brethren being driven out from their homes, and called upon the brethren and Sisters to open their hearts and contribute to their necessities. Bro. then made some remarks upon contributions, followed by brother Salmon Warner upon the same subject.
Bro. occupied a short time in exhortation and instructed the brethren into the propriety of the deliverance of Zion. He said that he had no property, but if necessary for the deliverance of Zion, he would sell his own clothes at auction if he could have left to him as good a garment as the Saviour had in the manger.
The time was occupied for a few minutes by two or three others upon the same subject. Bro. Joseph Smith Jnr. then deliverd a short prophecy, that if Zion was not deliverd the time was near when all of this , whereever they might be found, would be persecuted and destroyed in like manner
Bro. then took up the second item, viz:— The of the with power from on high. He gave an account of the endowment of the ancient and laid before the the dimensions of the to be built in and rehearsed the promise to the elders in the last days which they were to realize after the was built. Bro. [p. 46]

then related a few items of a vision which he gave as a testimony of those things contained in the revelations read by , and his remarks upon that part relative to the of the with power from on high. Bro. Joseph then occupied a few minutes by way of explanation of the revelation concerning the building of the .
Bro. then took up the third item, viz: The spreading of the word of the Lord. After which several brethren spoke.
The case of bro. Thomas Tripp who had been found in transgression, was then called in question. Bro. David Evans was called upon to state what he knew concerning the case, who said that he had been guilty of improprieties with a sister when going home from a meeting by takeing her by the hand. And also committed some other improprieties with another sister by drawing her breasts. He had sought witness against a sister in good standing from a wicked woman in the world. The then voted that Thomas Tripp be excluded from this with the privilege of an appeal to the at .
Bro. Joseph then laid hands upon certain children & blessed them in the name of the Lord. The was then administered by bro. .
The number of was— 7.
" Ditto " Elders "—— 13.
Adjourned to the Monday precedeing the second sunday in September. The conference then closed by singing, “Now my remnant of days,” &c.
} Clerk of conference [p. 47]