D&C 102 — Revelation Book 2

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Revelation Book 2' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09).
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Minutes, 17 February 1834 D&C 102 Kirtland 17,— Feb.y 1834.—

1
This day a general council of twenty four high priests assembled at the house of Joseph Smith Jr. by revelation, and proceeded to organize the High council of the church of christ which was to consist of twelve high priests and one or three presidents as the case might require.
2
This high council was appointed by revelation for the purpose of settleing important difficulties which might arise in the church which could not be settled by the church or the Bishop’s council to the satisfaction of the parties.
3
Joseph Smith Jur., Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G Williams, were acknowledged Presidents by the voice of the council; and Joseph Smith Sen. John Smith, Joseph Coe, John Johnson, Martin Harris, John S Carter, Jared Carter, Oliver Cowdery, Saml. H Smith, Orson Hyde, Sylvester Smith and Luke Johnson high priests, were chosen to be a standing council for the church by the unanimous voice of the council.
4
The above named counsellors were then asked whether they accepted their appointments and whether they would act in that office according to the law of heaven, to which they all answered that they accepted their several appointments, and would fill their offices according to the grace of God bestowed upon them.
5
The number composeing the council who voted in the name and for the church in appointing the above named counsellors, were forty Three, as follows; Nine High Priests, Seventeen Elders, four priests, and thirteen members.—
6
Voted, that the high council cannot have power to act without seven of the above named counsellors or their regularly appointed successors, are present.
7
These seven shall have power to appoint other high priests whom they may consider worthy and capable to act in the place of absent counsellors.
8
Voted, that whenever any vacancy shall occur by the death, removal from office for transgression, or removal from the bounds of this church goverment of any one of the above named counsellors, it shall be filled by the nomination of the President or Presidents and sanctioned by the voice of a general council of High Priests convened to act in the name of the church.
9
The president of the church who is also the president of the council, is appointed by the voice of the Savior and acknowledged in his administration by the voice of the church;
10
and it is according to the dignity of his office that he should preside over the high council of the church; and it is his privilege to be assisted by two other presidents appointed after the same manner that he himself was appointed;
11
and in case of the abscence of one or both of those who are appointed to assist him, he has power to preside over the council without an assistant, and in case that he himself is absent, the other presidints have power to preside in his stead, both or either of them.
12
Whenever a high council of the church of Christ is regularly organized according to the foregoing pattern, it shall be the duty of the twelve counsellors to cast lots by numbers and thereby ascertain who of the twelve shall speak first; commenceing with No. 1. and so in succession to No. 12.—
13
Whenever this council convenes to act upon any case, the twelve counsellors shall consider whether it is a difficult one or not; if it is not, two only of the counsellors shall speak upon it according to the form above written:
14
But if it is thought to be difficult, four shall be appointed, and if more difficult, six: But in no case, shall more than six be appointed to speak.
15
The accused in all cases has a right to one half of the council to prevent insult or injustice;
16
and the counsellors appointed to speak before the council, are to present the case after the evidence is examined, in its true light, before the council, and every man is to speak according to equity and justice.
17
Those counsellors who draw even numbers, that is, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 are the individuals who are to stand up in the behalf of the accused and prevent insult or injustice.
18
In all cases the accuser and the accused shall have a privilege of speaking for themselves before the council after the evidences are heard and the counsellors who are appointed to speak on the case, have finished their remarks.
19
After the evidences are heard, the counsellors, accuser and the accused, have spoken, the president shall give a decision according to the understanding which he shall have of the case, and call upon the twelve counsellors to sanction the same by their voices:
20
But should the remaining counsellors who have not spoken, or any one of them, after hearing the evidences and pleadings impartially, discover an error in the decision of the president, they can manifest it and the case shall have a re-hearing;
21
and if after a careful rehearing any additional light is thrown upon the case, the decision shall be altered accordingly:
22
But in case no additional light is given, the first decision shall stand, the majority of the council haveing powir to determine the same.
23
In cases of difficulty respecting doctrine or principle, (if there is not a sufficiency written to make the case clear to the minds of the council) the President may inquire and obtain the mind of the Lord by revelation.
24
The high priests when abroad have power to call and organize a council after the manner aforesaid of the foregoing to settle difficulties when the parties or either of them shall request it
25
and the said council of high priests shall have power to appoint one of their own number to preside over such council for the time being.
26
It shall be the duty of said council to transmit, immediately, a copy of their proceedings with a full statement of the testimony accompanying their decision to the high council at the seat of the goverment of the church.
27
Should the parties or either of them be dissatisfied with the decision of said council they may appeal to the high council at of the seat of the general goverment of the church and have a re-hearing which case shall there be conducted according to the former pattern written as though no such decision had been made.
28
This council of high priests abroad is only to be called on the most difficult cases of church matters; and no common or ordinary case is to be sufficient to call such councils.
29
The traveling or located high priests abroad have the power to say whether it is necessary to call such a council or not.
30
[not present in this edition]
31
[not present in this edition]
32
[not present in this edition]
33
Resolved, that the president or presidents at the seat of general church goverment shall have power to determine whether any such case as may be appealed is justly entitled to a re-hearing after examining the appeal and the evidences and statements accompanying it.
34
The twelve counsellors then proceeded to cast lots or ballot to ascertain who should speak first; and the following was the result, namely, Oliver Cowdery Drew No. 1 Joseph Coe " " 2 Samuel H Smith " " 3 Luke Johnson " " 4 John S Carter " " 5 Sylvester Smith " " 6 John Johnson " " 7 Orson Hyde " " 8 Jared Carter " " 9 Joseph Smith Sen " " 10 John Smith " " 11 Martin Harris " " 12. The council then adjournd to meet on wednesday the 19th. Inst. at 10 O’cl’k A.M.
