Minutes and Discourses, 7–8 March 1835

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourses-7-8-march-1835/1
Date: March 7, 1835
Handwriting: Handwriting of Warren Cowdery

Minutes and Discourses, , Geauga Co., OH, 7–8 Mar. 1835. Featured version copied [not before 25 Feb. 1836] in Minute Book 1, pp. 192–197; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Minute Book 1.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 7 and 8 March 1835, JS, his counselors, and a large body of church leaders, including recently ordained members of the , held meetings in , Ohio, to bless 121 men who had participated in or donated resources to the building of the in Kirtland. Construction of the structure had begun in June 1833, and the walls had been completed by the time of these meetings. The blessings in these meetings appear to be a continuation of blessings provided to individuals beginning in mid-February. In a meeting on 14 February, JS recognized the participants in attendance. Over the next several weeks, many of these individuals were blessed by the ; some were also designated as either or members of the Seventy. At the 7–8 March meetings, other individuals were similarly blessed for helping construct the House of the Lord. However, the list of those blessed may not be a comprehensive list of those who worked on the building; more individuals, including former Camp of Israel participants, likely also contributed to that effort. It appears that the blessings given in these meetings were meant mainly for those men who remained in Kirtland to work on the House of the Lord instead of going on the Camp of Israel expedition.
The departure of the Camp of Israel from in May 1834 slowed but did not fully stop construction on the . According to , “only , , and a few aged workmen” remained behind to work on the structure. Kimball indicated that construction accelerated when members of the Camp of Israel began to return in August 1834 and that “every man lent a helping hand” to the endeavor. The minutes of these 7–8 March meetings, however, indicate that more construction may have occurred during the Camp of Israel expedition than Kimball described. Of the individuals blessed during the 7–8 March meetings, only JS, , , Erastus Rudd, and had participated in the expedition to . Many men had apparently stayed in Kirtland to work on the House of the Lord, including and , both of whom served on the building committee; , the supervisor of construction; and a number of stonemasons, brick makers, carpenters, blacksmiths, and other skilled tradesmen.
The meetings at which the blessings were given began Saturday morning, 7 March, with JS speaking about the need for the church to cleanse and purify itself. JS continued speaking in the afternoon, proclaiming that those who committed themselves to the construction of the “should own it, and have the control of it.” A list of individuals who had thus distinguished themselves was drafted, presented to the body, and unanimously approved, after which those present committed to continue their labors. The blessings were given during the remainder of the meeting, with acting as voice for at least a portion of them. These blessings continued the following day. In all, 121 blessings were given, 45 on 7 March and 76 on 8 March. Some ordinations were also performed, including ’s ordination as a seventy. Additionally, an addendum to the minutes, likely not contemporaneous to the meeting, includes the names of individuals who were ordained as seventies at an undesignated time.
served as clerk of the meeting and recorded its minutes. later copied them into Minute Book 1.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

March 7th 1835
This day a Meeting of the was called in this place, for the purpose of blessing in the name of the Lord, those who have heretofore assisted in building, by their labor & other means, the in this place. The forenoon was occupied by J. Smith Junr in remarks to the Church, upon the propriety and necessity of purifying itself. In the P.M. the names several, those who had assisted to build the were taken and further remarks were made by president J. Smith Junr. He said that those who had distinguished themselves Thus far by to the upbuilding of said as well as laboring were to be remembered. That those who build it should own it, and have the control of it. After further remarks he proceeded to call a vote of those who had performed this labor, whether they would still go on and perform the remaining part of the same,
Passed by unanimous voice.
President was nominated to officiate in in the name of the Lord to bestow the blessings.
The Presidency were blessed and & , the building Committee. The last were not present but their right in the house was preserved. [p. 192]

Names of those who were blessed in consequence of their working on the in and those also who to its upbuilding
Giles Cook Joseph Smith Junr Jaman Aldrich Joel McWithee [McWithey] Matthew Foy James Randal [Randle] Edmund Durfee Junr. Oliver Higby Gideon Ormsby Sunday P.M. March 8 Albert Miner Levi Osgood Isaac Hubbard Z. H. Brewster Samuel Thompson John Ormsby Luman Carter William Carter [p. 193]

Thomas Fisher Sterry Fisk Amos R. Orton Alman Sherman Robert Dugley Moses Bailey Sebe Ives Samuel Canfield Andrew H. Aldrich Josiah Fuller James Lake Erastus Rudd Wm. Redfield Roswell Murry Harvey Smith Benjamin Wells Isaac Cleaveland Nehemiah Harmon Oliver Wetherby Thomas Hancock Joshua Grant Henry Baker William Draper Wm. Fisk Ransom Vanleuwen John Reed Samuel Wilcox Blake Baldwin [p. 194]

, and were then blessed with the blessings of Heaven and a right in the in this place, agreeably to the labor and expense they have performed on the same. , & were next called who received the like blessing. The right here spoken of is according to each man’s labor or amount of donations. & were called was promised wisdom and ability to proclaim the gospel in addition to a place in the . and Gideon Ormsby were next called and received promises of a right in the . was also an Elder. Albert Miner, & were next called and received like blessings. Isaac Hubbard & were then called & blessed was ordained an Elder. was also ordained & were called & blessed. . Giles Cook Junr and . Giles Cook Junr. & were ordained Elders. Wm. Carter Jaman Aldrich & were next called. Wm. Carter who was blind, was promised a blessing of being restored to sight if faithful.
, Joel McWithy & Matthew Foy were called. James Randall and were next called.
was ordained a missionary to the after others have unlocked the door; with a promise of gathering many to . and of returning at the end of his mission with great joy, to enjoy the blessings of his family. , , and were called. was promised a blessing of health (if faithful) was told that God had a work for him, to go and preach the gospel to the sectarian priests of this age. [p. 195]

to call after them, and hunt them up. whereever he could hear of them. To preach the gospel to them whether they will hear or not.
, & . & were . was blessed with a promise of having wisdom to proclaim the gospel and also to write in wisdom , & Oliver Higby, blessed.
Closed by prayer of .
Sabbath morning March 8th 1835
Pursuant to adjournment the met for the purpose of further blessing those who had assisted in building the in . , Levi Osgood and were called to the stand & blessed. and Z. H. Brewster were called next, Samuel Tompkins, John Ormsby Luman Carter & Thomas Fisher, Blessed Sterry Fisk Amos R. Orton and Almon Sherman.
Brother Fisk whose family was afflicted was promised a blessing if faithful.
Amos R. Orton was ordained an and a missionary to the . Andrew H. Aldrich, Thomas Baily and Seba Ives Blessed. , , , , James Lake & Wm. Redfield, B. Wm. Redfield was ordained an Elder.
, Harvey Smith, Isaac Cleaveland, Wm. Baker . Henry Baker Wm. Fisk . & —— Blessed. was set apart a missionary to the Lamanites. , , Blake Baldwin and Joseph B. Baldwin. Blessed.
, & called & Blessed. being one who went for the relief of their [p. 196]

afflicted brethren in and received a blessing accordingly.
, . Robert Quigley and Samuel Canfield. Blessed
Samuel Canefield was an
&. was ordained a missionary to the . Erastus Rudd, Josiah Fuller, Roswell Murry, Benjamin Wells, Nehemiah Harmon Thomas Hancock, Oliver Weatherby, Joshua Grant Junr. Wm. Draper Jur Ransom Vanluwen & Blessed. John Reed & Samuel Wilcox Blessed.
who went to was set apart to be one of the . If thou art not purified thou wilt not be able to execute thy commission. Thou wilt fall into snares and into the hands of enemies who will take thy life Thou must begin to make a complete reformation in thy self.
, Clerk
The following are few names of such as belong to the but the time of their cannot be accurately ascertained.
, Joseph Winchester, . Hezekiah Fisk, many blessings were pronounced upon his head but he is not one of the 70 James L. Thompson had many blessings but was not ordained. Henry Beaman ordained one of the 70 Jesse Huntsman Jesse Huntsman—— , all to be attached to the Seventy.
one of the Seventy—— [p. 197]