Minutes and Discourses, 27 February 1835, as Reported by William E. McLellin

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourses-27-february-1835-as-reported-by-william-e-mclellin/1
Date: February 27, 1835
Handwriting: Handwriting of Orson Hyde

Minutes and Discourses, , Geauga Co., OH, 27 Feb. 1835. Featured version copied [between ca. 27 Feb. and May 1835] in “Record of the Transactions of the Twelve,” pp. 1–4, in Patriarchal Blessing Book 2; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Record of the Twelve, 14 Feb.–28 Aug. 1835.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 27 February 1835, JS held a council at his home in , Ohio, to instruct nine of the newly appointed on the importance of keeping a record of their meetings and decisions. The council then designated and to serve as clerks for the . JS also further instructed the apostles on their duty as traveling high counselors and described their distinctive calling, role, and jurisdiction.
Although an April 1830 revelation instructed the church to keep records, early record-keeping projects were inconsistent. For instance, journal-keeping efforts for JS lapsed after ten days in 1832, resumed semioccasionally from October 1833 until 5 December 1834, and then lapsed again until late September 1835. JS and the church eventually became more consistent at working on and maintaining histories, journals, letters, minutes, and other documents, but in February 1835, such efforts were unpredictable and at times even negligent. The impetus for a renewed concentration on record keeping may have been the barrage of perceived falsehoods and misrepresentations about the church that, in part, led church leaders to continue concerted efforts to publish a collection of JS revelations, to be known as the Doctrine and Covenants. At this 27 February 1835 meeting, JS suggested that incomplete record keeping meant that “we cannot bear record to the church, and to the world, of the great and glorious manifestations which have been made to us, with that degree of power and authority, we otherwise could.”
JS also noted that church leaders had “neglected to take minutes” of decisions on doctrinal and administrative matters. His commentary underscores the fact that the extant records of the early church provide far from complete coverage of early administrative decisions and even revelations. JS’s assertion is confirmed by the lack of early church records for many events mentioned in other sources. For example, there are no extant minutes of the 25 January 1832 at which JS was designated . Various clerks, mainly and , kept minutes of church meetings at least as early as 9 June 1830. However, after Cowdery and Whitmer left for in November 1831, there is no indication that minutes of any church proceedings were kept in until early December 1832. There is also no extant record of the vision or revelation to call the Twelve Apostles and the , which JS alluded to when the Twelve were selected. JS considered the records available in February 1835 so incomplete that he felt “deep sorrow” for the “fountain of intelligence or knowledge of infinite importance which is lost.”
In response to JS’s instruction, the Twelve appointed and as clerks, and Hyde and McLellin began recording the minutes of the Twelve’s meetings, including those of this 27 February meeting, on loose-leaf paper. By May 1835, they acquired a book and began recording minutes of their meetings in it, titling the volume “A record of the transactions of the twelve apostles of the church of christ of latter day saints,” or Record of the Twelve.
Two extant records contain the minutes of the 27 February 1835 meeting. copied one version of the minutes, listing as clerk, into the Record of the Twelve probably sometime in early May 1835, making it the earliest extant version. In 1836, copied another version of the minutes, showing as the clerk, in Minute Book 1. The two original minutes drafted by McLellin and Oliver Cowdery are no longer extant. While the versions in the Record of the Twelve and Minute Book 1 contain much of the same information, each also provides important unique material. The version recorded in the Record of the Twelve, for example, includes more information about the power and authority of the Twelve than the version in Minute Book 1 does. According to the Record of the Twelve version, JS explained that the duty of the Twelve was to “go and unlock the kingdom of heaven to foreign nations”; he also stated that they stood in “the same relation to those nations” as JS stood to them, “as a minister.” JS’s remarks, as recorded in the Record of the Twelve, foreshadow further counsel given to the Twelve Apostles in May 1835, as well as instructions on priesthood that were included in the 1835 edition of the Doctrine and Covenants.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

February 27th. of the same year [1835] the met in by request of President J. Smith Jr. After the was opened by prayer, he arose and made the following observations, (Viz) “I have something to lay before this council, an item which they will find to be of great importance to them. I have for myself learned a fact by experience which on reflection gives me deep sorrow. It is a truth that if I now had in my possession every decision which has been given upon important items of doctrine and duties since the rise of this , they would be of incalculable worth to the saints, but we have neglected to keep record [p. 1]

of such things, thinking that prehaps that they would never benefit us afterwards, which had we now, would decide almost any point that might be agitated; and now we cannot bear record to the church nor unto the world of the great and glorious manifestations that have been made to us with that degree of power and authority which we otherwise could if we had those decisions to publish abroad.
Since the twelve are now chosen, I wish to tell them a course which they may pursue and be benefitted hereafter in a point of light of which they, prehaps, are not now aware. At all times when you assemble in the capacity of a council to transact business let the oldest of your number preside, and let one or more be appointed to keep a record of your proceedings and on the decision of every important item, be it what it may, let such decision be noted down, and they will ever after remain upon record as law, covenants and doctrine. Questions thus decided might at the time appear unimportant, but should they be recorded and one of you lay hands upon them afterward you might find them of infinite worth not only to your brethren but a feast also to your own souls.
Should you assemble from time to time and proceed to discuss important questions and pass decisions upon them and omit to record such decisions, by and by, you will be driven to straits from which you will not be able to extricate yourselves— not being in a situation to bring your faith to bare with sufficient perfection or power to obtain the desired information. Now in consequence of a neglect to write these things when God reveals them, not esteeming them of sufficient worth the spirit may withdraw and God may be angry, and here is a fountain of intelligence or knowledge of infinite importance which is lost. What was the cause of this? The answer is slothfulness [p. 2]

or a neglect to appoint a man to occupy a few moments in writing. Here let me prophecy the time will come when if you neglect to do this, you will fall by the hands of unrighteous men. Were you to be brought before the authorities and accused of any crime or misdemeanor and be as innocent as the angels of God unless you can prove that you were somewhere else, your enemies will prevail against you: but if you can bring twelve men to testify that you were in some other place at that time you will escape their hands. Now if you will be careful to keep minutes of these things as I have said, it will be one of the most important and interesting records ever seen. I have now laid these things before you for your consideration and you are left to act according to your own judgments.”
The then expressed their approbation of the foregoing remarks and proceeded to nominate and appoint and to serve as clerks for the ‘twelve’.
The following question was then proposed by president J Smith Jun. (viz) What importance is attached to the callings of these differrent from the other callings and offices of the . After some discussion by Elders , , and , the following decision was given by President Smith, the Prophet of God.
“They are the twelve apostles who are called to a travelling to preside over all the churches of the saints among the gentiles when there is no presidency established. They are to travel and preach among the until the Lord shall shall command them to go to the Jews. They are to hold the of this ministry— to unlock the door of the kingdom of heaven unto all nations and preach the Gospel unto every creation. This is the virtue powr and authority of their — Amen. It is all important that the twelve should understand the power and authority of [p. 3]

the , for without this knowledge they can do nothing to profit. In the first place God manifested himself to me and gave me authority to establish his , and you have received your authority from God through me; and now it is your duty to go and unlock the kingdom of heaven to foreign nations, for no man can do that thing but yourselves. Neither has any man authority or a right to go to other nations before you; and you, , stand in the same relation to those nations that I stand in to you, that is, as a minister; and you have each the same authority in other nations that I have in this nation.” The was closed by .
} Clerk [p. 4]