Minutes, Discourse, and Blessings, 14–15 February 1835

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-discourse-and-blessings-14-15-february-1835/1
Date: February 14, 1835
Handwriting: Handwriting of Warren Cowdery

Minutes, Discourse, and Blessings, , Geauga Co., OH, 14–15 Feb. 1835. Featured version copied [not before 25 Feb. 1836] in Minute Book 1, pp. 147–154; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Minute Book 1.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 14 and 15 February 1835, JS presided over a meeting held in the church’s in , Ohio. At the meeting, he directed , , and —the three witnesses of the Book of Mormon—to call twelve men as . The concept of appointing twelve men as special proselytizing disciples is found in the New Testament account of Jesus Christ calling twelve apostles and in the Book of Mormon account of Christ calling twelve disciples when he visited the Nephites in the Americas after his resurrection. During JS’s time, the office of apostle did not exist in other churches in the , though the Catholic Apostolic Church in did call twelve apostles between 1832 and 1835. Some biblical commentators in JS’s day believed that “a distinguishing part” of an apostle’s role was his calling and by Christ himself, implying that apostles existed only in New Testament times.
A June 1829 revelation had instructed and to “search out” twelve disciples who would preach the gospel “unto and unto Jew” and even “unto every creature.” According to Cowdery, since that time, his and Whitmer’s minds had “been on a constant stretch to find who these Twelve were.” They had “sought the Lord by fasting and prayer” and had at times received instruction from JS and others about the . For example, at an October 1831 , Cowdery stated that he and Whitmer had received directions that the Twelve “would be ordained & sent forth from the Land of .” However, Cowdery later noted that he had not known when the Twelve would be selected.
By 1835, the time was apparently right for choosing the apostles. A later JS history states that on 8 February 1835, and his brother came to JS’s house and sang to him after a meeting. “The Spirit of the Lord was poured out upon us,” the history states, “and I [JS] told them I wanted to see those brethren together who went up to Zion in the , the previous summer, for I had a blessing for them.” The later reminiscences of Brigham and Joseph Young provide more detail. According to Brigham, while he and his brother were singing, JS received a revelation declaring that twelve apostles were to be called “from those who have been up to Zion.” Joseph Young later stated that JS told the brothers he had received a vision of the glorious reward of those members of the Camp of Israel who had perished from cholera. JS then asked Brigham to “notify all the brethren living in the branches, within a reasonable distance from this place, to meet at a General Conference on Saturday next.” At that conference, JS stated, he would “then and there appoint twelve special witnesses, to open the door of the gospel to foreign nations.” According to Joseph Young, JS then told Brigham that he would be one of the twelve selected.
Although JS’s designation of as one of the apostles may have circumvented the process of having , , and select the Twelve, it is likely that the three worked together with JS to choose the apostles either before the 14–15 February meeting or during a one-hour recess that occurred during the 14 February session. In 1848, Cowdery told Brigham Young that he and Whitmer had originally chosen as a member of the Twelve but that JS made an “urgent request” that his brother be selected instead. “Brother David and myself yielded to his wish,” Cowdery told Brigham Young, “and consented for William to be selected.” In an 1885 interview, Whitmer gave a similar account, explaining that he and Cowdery “were appointed a committee” to select the apostles but that JS “insisted that his brother William Smith should be put in as it was the only way by which he could be saved.” The actual selection process of the Twelve, then, was likely a collaboration between JS, Cowdery, Whitmer, and Harris.
The minutes of the 14–15 February 1835 meeting in Minute Book 1 state that the meeting was called at God’s command so that “those who went to Zion, with a determination to lay down their lives, if necessary” could be “ordained to the ministry.” A June 1834 revelation had told the members of the Camp of Israel that they would not redeem Zion at that time and explained that such redemption could not come until after the elders of the church were “endowed with power from on high.” They would then be able to teach God’s people “more perfectly, and have experience and know more perfectly concerning their duty.” The revelation went on to say that those who had gone on the expedition would receive “a great endowment and blessing” from God if they continued to be faithful. This endowment would be provided in the then under construction in . The revelation concluded with an admonition that it was now “a day of choosing” and that JS needed to select “worthy” individuals who would be sanctified “to accomplish all things partaining to Zion.”
When the 14–15 February meeting convened, those who had participated in the 1834 expedition to Zion were recognized and promised that they would “be endowed with power from on high.” The meeting then adjourned for an hour. When it reconvened, JS instructed , , and “to choose twelve men from the church as Apostles to go to all nations, kindred toungs and people.” The three selected the Twelve Apostles, eight of whom had accompanied JS on the Camp of Israel expedition. Over the course of the next two days, nine of these individuals—, , , , , , , , and —received blessings; the other three—, , and —were apparently not in at this time and received their blessings later. The Twelve Apostles regarded the blessings they received as ordinations to the apostolic office. The blessings promised that they would perform remarkable feats in God’s name, especially in terms of converting individuals to the church and bringing them to Zion. As Heber C. Kimball later recalled, the blessings “predicted many things which should come to pass”—that individuals would have power “to heal the sick, cast out devils, raise the dead, the blind should see, and have power to remove mountains” and have “all things” under their subjection “through the name of Jesus Christ.”
The minutes do not clearly identify who participated in all of the ordination blessings or who pronounced them. According to one version of the minutes, was the voice for at least ’s ordination. A second version made by Hyde in a record book of the Twelve declares that the apostles were “ordained under the hands of the Three Witnesses.” Other accounts provide additional detail. , for example, remembered Cowdery and performing his ordination. stated in his diary that Cowdery and ordained him and on 26 April 1835. ’s ordination, which took place on 21 February 1835, was performed by JS, Cowdery, and Whitmer. Orson Hyde stated in December 1835 that his ordination was also performed under JS’s hand. According to , the ordinations were performed by Cowdery, Whitmer, and Harris and then confirmed by the . These accounts indicate that JS was involved in at least some capacity with the actual ordinations, as were Cowdery, Whitmer, and Harris.
Though some of the blessings refer to the Twelve holding “the keys of the kingdom” and “the keys of this ministry,” the minutes of the 14–15 February meeting do not outline any administrative responsibilities for the Twelve. Instead, the instructions and blessings focus on the proselytizing responsibilities of the apostles. Up to this point, the term apostle had been used most frequently among church members to designate one who had been called to preach the gospel, although JS and were also referred to as apostles as part of their designation as leaders in the church. Those individuals selected as the Twelve Apostles had already served several proselytizing missions; some were still preaching in outlying areas at the time of their call. Over the next several weeks, JS designated the Twelve as a “traveling high council,” responsible for “presid[ing] over all the churches of the Saints among the Gentiles, where there is no presidency established.” The Twelve departed on 4 May 1835 to preach and hold conferences in the eastern and .
It is not clear from this record who took the minutes of this 14–15 February meeting, but later wrote that he “was clerk of the conference in which the Twelve were chosen.” Two versions of the minutes exist. Sometime in 1836, entered minutes for the meeting into Minute Book 1, titling them “Ordination Blessings.” These minutes provide a record of the blessings for the nine who were ordained as apostles over the two days. Some of the recorded blessings appear to be verbatim accounts, while others appear to be summaries; all use extensive language from the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and JS revelations. entered another account of the minutes into a “Record of the Transactions of the Twelve” that he and William E. McLellin kept as clerks of the Twelve Apostles. Hyde’s much shorter account does not provide any information about the recognition of and instruction to the participants in the Camp of Israel, nor does it include the ordination blessings of the Twelve. Hyde may have wanted to include only those items that he considered essential for a record of the Twelve’s proceedings, but the lack of detail in the minutes suggests he may have been reconstructing his summary from memory, rather than from loose minutes. In addition, Hyde’s summary indicates that all of the apostles received their ordinations on 14 February 1835, though the Minute Book 1 version demonstrates that this was not the case.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Blessings
February 14 1835
This day a meeting was called of those who for the purpose of laying the foundation of its redemption last season with as many more of the Brethren & Sisters as felt disposed to attend. Joseph Smith Junr presided over the meeting. After the Congregation assembled. he arose and requested the attention and read the 15th chapter of John and said, let us endeavor to solemnize our minds that we may receive a blessing by calling on the Lord & said let us pray
After an appropriate and affecting prayer was made the Bretheren who went to , were requested to take their seats together in one part of the house by themselves. President Smith arose and stated the reason why this meeting was called. It was this. God had commanded it and it was made known to him by vision and by the Holy Spirit. he then gave a relation of some of the circumstances attending us while journeying to Zion, our trials, sufferings &c &c. He said God had not designed all this for nothing, but he had it in remembrance yet, and those who went to Zion, with a determination to lay down their lives, if necessary, it was the Will of God, that they should be to the ministry and go forth to prune the vineyard for the last time, or the coming of the Lord, which was nigh, even fifty six years, should wind up the scene. He said many things such as the weak things, even the smallest and weakest among us shall be powerful and mighty and great things, should be accomplished by you, even from this hour. He said, you shall begin to feel the whisperings of the Spirit of God, and the works of God, shall begin to break forth from this time. you shall be with power from on high. [p. 147]

President Smith then called upon all those who went to to know if they were agreed with him in the statements which he had made, he said if you are arise upon your feet, all arose upon their feet. He then called upon the balance of the congregation to know also, if they would sanction the movement. They all raised the right hand. The names of those who went to Zion are as follows.
Joseph Smith Junr. 1 James L. Thompson 27 53 2 Henry Shibley 28 54 3 29 55 4 30 56 5 Darwin Richardson 31 6 32 7 33 8 34 9 35 10 36 11 Daniel Stevens [Stephens] 37 12 Bradford Elliott 38 13 Hiram Stratton 39 14 40 15 41 16 42 17 43 18 44 19 45 20 46 21 47 22 48 23 Elias Hutchins 49 Libeus T. Coon [Libbeus Coons] 24 Charles Kelly 50 25 51 26 52 [p. 148]

A Hymn was then sung for dismission (viz.) Hark listen to the trumpeters they call for volunteers. closed by prayer and dismissed for one hour.
Met pursuant to adjourment & president opened the meeting by Prayer. President J. Smith Junr. arose and said. The first business of the meeting was for the three witnesses of the Book of Mormon, to pray each one and then proceed to choose twelve men from the as to go to all nations, kindred toungs and people. The three Witnesses united in prayer (Viz) , & . These three Witnesses were then blessed by the of the . They then according to a former commandment, proceeded to make choice of the : The names are as follows
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 , and came forward and the three witnesses laid their hands upon each ones head and prayed separately. The Blessing of was in the name of Jesus Christ, that he should bear the tidings of salvation to nations, tongues and people, until the utmost corners of the earth shall hear the tidings, and that he shall be a witness of the things of God to nations & tongues, and that Holy shall administer to him occasionally and that no power of the enemy shall prevent him from going forth and doing the work of the Lord. And that he should live until the was accomplished, according to the Holy Prophets. And that he should be like unto Enoch. [p. 149]

And your faith shall be like unto his, and he shall be called great among all the living, and Satan shall tremble before thee, and that he shall see the Saviour come and stand on the Earth with power and great glory.
The blessing of was as follows, That he should be strong in Body, that he may go forth and gather the Elect preparatory to the great day of the coming of the Lord, and that he might be strong and mighty declaring the tidings to nations that know not God, that he may add ten talents, that he may come to with many sheaves. He shall go forth from land to land and from sea to sea. and shall behold Heavenly Messengers going forth, & his life shall be prolonged, and the Holy Priesthood is confirmed upon thee, that he may do wonders in the name of Jesus, that he may cast out Devils, heal the sick, raise the dead, open the eyes of the blind, go forth from land to land and from sea to sea, and that heathen nations shall even call him God himself, if he did not rebuke them.
, blessing was in substance as follows. That he shall be made like unto those who have been blessed before him and be favored with the same blessing. That he might receive visions, the ministration of and hear their voices & even come into the presence of God. That many millions may be converted by his instrumentality that angels may waft him from place to place and that he may stand unto the coming of our Lord and receive a crown over the kingdom of our Lord, that he be made acquainted with the day when Christ shall come, that he shall be made perfect [p. 150]

in faith and that the deaf shall hear, the lame shall walk, the blind shall see, and greater things than these shall he do, that he shall have boldness of speech before the nations and great power &c.
A hymn was then sung Glorious things of thee are spoken. The congregation was then dismissed by J. Smith Junr.
Sunday, Feb. 15th at 9 o clock A.M. the congregation again assembled & arose, and made some observations upon the nature of the meeting and then prayed unto the Lord for his assistance &c &c.
After which a number of certificates were read and accepted from brethren, that recently returned from . Then, called forwarward . and and proceeded to their & blessing.
, blessing. proceeded and called upon the Lord to smile upon him and that his faith shall be perfect, and that the blessings pronounced shall be realized. He shall be made mighty and be with power from on high, and go forth to the nations of the earth to proclaim the gospel. That he shall escape all the pollutions of the world. The shall uphold him, and that he shall go forth according to the , both to Jew & and shall go to all nations, kingdoms and tongues All who hear his voice shall acknowledge him to be a servant of God. He shall be equal in holding the of the kingdom. He shall stand on the earth and bring souls till Christ comes. We know that he loves thee, and may this thy servant be able to walk through pestilence and not be harmed. The powers of darkness shall have no ascendency over him. He shall have power to smite the earth with pestilence, to divide waters and lead through the Saints. He shall go from land to land and from sea to sea. He shall be like unto one of the three [p. 151]

’s blessing. O God, give this, thy servant a knowledge of thy will; May he be like one of old who bore testimony of Jesus. May he be a new man from this day forth. He shall be equal with his brethren, the , and have all the qualifications of the Prophets before him. May his body be strong and never be weary. May he walk and not faint. May he have power over all diseases, and faith according to his desires. May the Heavens be opened upon him speedily, that he may bear testimony from knowledge, that he may go to nations and isles afar off. May he have a knowledge of the things of the kingdom from the beginning and be able to tear down like a Lion May he have power to smite his enemies before him with utter destruction. May he continue till the Lord comes. O Father we seal these blessings upon him, even so Amen.
’s blessing
Our Father, in Heaven, look down in mercy upon us and upon this thy servant whom we to the ministry of the twelve. He shall be prepared and preserved and become like those we have blessed before him, The nations shall tremble before him. He shall hear the voice of God: he shall comfort the hearts of the saints, always. The angels shall bear him up till he shall finish his ministry. He shall be delivered and come forth with Israel. He shall bear testimony to the kings of the earth, and hold communion with the Father, with the son and with the general assembly and church of the first born. If cast into prison he shall be able to comfort the hearts of his comrades His tongue shall be loosed and he shall have power to lead many to , and set down with them, and the Ancient of Days shall pronounce this blessing. That you have been faithful. He shall have strength [p. 152]

wisdom & power. He shall go among the covenant people and speak all their tongues where he shall go. All these blessings we confirm upon him in the name of Jesus. Amen.
’s blessing.
In the name of the Lord, Wisdom & intelligence shall be poured out upon him, to enable him to perform the great work, that is incumbent upon him. That he may be spared until the saints are gathered, that he may stand before Kings and Rulers to bear testimony and be upheld by holy , and the nations of the earth shall acknowledge that God has sent him. He shall have power to overcome his enemies, and his life shall be spared in the midst of pestilance and destruction, and in the midst of his enemies. He shall be a prince and a saviour to God’s people. The Tempter shall not overcome him, nor his enemies prevail against him. The Heavens shall be opened unto him as unto men in days of old. He shall be mighty in the hands of God, and shall convince thousands that God has sent him, and his days may be prolonged until the coming of the son of man. He shall be wafted as on eagles wings, from country to country and from people to people and be able to do wonders in the midst of this generation, Even so Amen.
’s blessing
Thou hast prevailed, and thou shalt prevail and thou shalt declare the gospel unto many nations. Thou shalt be made mighty before God. And although thou shalt be cast out from the face of men, yet thou shalt have power to prevail, thou shalt lead the Elect triumphantly to the places of refuge. Thou shalt be like thy brethren who have been blessed before thee. Thou shalt stand in that day of calamity when the wicked shall be consumed, and present unto the Father, spotless, the fruit of thy labor. Thou shalt overcome all the evils that are in the world. Thou shalt have wisdom to put to silence all the wisdom of the wise, and thou shalt see the face of thy Redeemer in the flesh. These blessings are pronounced and sealed upon thee even so Amen. [p. 153]

’s blessing
That he may be purified in heart, that he may have communion with God. That he may be equal with his brethren in holding the of this ministry That he may be kept and be instrumental in leading Israel forth, that he may be delivered from the hands of those who seek to destroy him: that he may be enabled to bear testimony to the nations, that Jesus lives. That he may stand in the midst of pestilence and destruction, he shall be mighty in the hands of God, in bringing about the restoration of Israel. The nations shall rejoice at the greatness of the gifts which God has bestowed upon him, That his tongue shall be loosed, he shall have power to do great things in the name of Jesus. He shall be preserved and remain on the earth, until Christ shall come to take vengeance on the wicked. [p. 154]