D&C 57 — Doctrine and Covenants, 1835

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Doctrine and Covenants, 1835' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09). The edition's own printed verse counters are removed — line numbers are 2013 verses only.
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Section 27 • Revelation, 20 July 1831 D&C 57 SECTION XXVII. Revelation given in Zion, July, 1831.

1
Hearken, O elders of my church, saith the L ord your God, who have assembled yourselves together, according to my commandments, in this land which is the land of Missouri, which is the land which I have appointed and consecrated for the gathering of the saints:
2
wherefore this is the land of promise, and the place for the city of Zion.
3
A nd thus saith the Lord your God, if you will receive wisdom here is wisdom.— Behold the place which is now called Independence, is the center place, and the spot for the temple is lying westward upon a lot which is not far from the courthouse:
4
wherefore it is wisdom that the l and should be purchased by the saints; and also every tract lying westward, even unto the line running directly between Jew and Gentile.
5
A nd also every tract bordering by the prairies, inasmuch as my disciples are enabled to buy lands. Behold this is wisdom, that they may obtain it for an everlasting inheritance.
6
A nd let my servant Sidney Gilbert, stand in the office which I have appointed him, to receive moneys, to be an agent unto the church, to buy land in all the regions round about, inasmuch as can be in righteousness, and as wisdom shall direct.
7
A nd let my servant Edward Partridge, stand in the office which I have appointed him, to divide the saints their inheritance, even as I have commanded: and also those whom he has appointed to assist him.
8
And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant Sidney Gilbert plant himself in this place, and establish a store, that he may sell goods without fraud, that he may obtain money to buy lands for the good of the saints; and that he may obtain whatsoever things the disciples may need to plant them in their inheritance.
9
A nd also let my servant Sidney Gilbert obtain a licence, ( b ehold here is wisdom, and whoso readeth let him understand,) that he may send goods also unto the people, even by whom he will as clerks, employed in his service,
10
and thus provide for my saints, that my gospel may be preached unto those who sit in darkness and in the region and shadow of death.
11
And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant William W. Phelps be planted in this place, and be established as a printer unto the church:
12
and lo, if the world receiveth his writings, (behold here is wisdom,) let him obtain whatsoever he can obtain in righteousness for the good of the saints.
13
A nd let my servant Oliver Cowdery assist him, even as I have commanded, in whatsoever place I shall appoint unto him, to copy, and to correct, and select, that all things may be right before me, as it shall be proved by the S pirit through him.—
14
A nd thus let those of whom I have spoken, be planted in the land of Zion, as speedily as can be, with their families, to do those things even as I have spoken.
15
And now concerning the gathering, let the b ishop and the agent make preparations for those families which have been commanded to come to this land, as soon as possible, and plant them in their inheritance.
16
A nd unto the residue of both e lders and members, further directions shall be given hereafter: even so. Amen.
