Minutes and Discourse, 2 May 1835, as Reported by William E. McLellin–A

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-2-may-1835-as-reported-by-william-e-mclellin-a/1
Date: May 2, 1835
Handwriting: Handwriting of Warren Cowdery

Minutes and Discourse, , Geauga Co., OH, 2 May 1835. Featured version copied [not before 25 Feb. 1836] in Minute Book 1, pp. 187–192; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Minute Book 1.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 12 March 1835, JS and the met and decided that before the departed on their mission to the eastern and , they would hold their first in , Ohio, on 2 May 1835. According to one version of the minutes of this 2 May meeting, the conference was a “grand council.” recorded that it consisted of “a large assembly of the officers of the church,” including the , the Twelve Apostles, and most of those who had been called to the . After an adjournment, these officers were joined by the Kirtland , and his counselors, and Bishop and his counselors. Pratt wrote in his journal that “many other officers of the church” also attended.
The council provided instruction to the Twelve Apostles and the Seventy, especially regarding their relationship to other administrative bodies in the church, such as the high council and the high council in (). By the time of this council, the instruction “on Priesthood” that was later published in the Doctrine and Covenants in September 1835 had likely been created; JS may have taken the opportunity to present the document at this conference. The instruction declared that there were “presiding offices growing out of, or appointed of, or from among those who are ordained to the several offices” in the . These presiding offices were the presidency of the high priesthood, the Twelve Apostles, the Seventy, and the high councils of Zion and of the of Zion. Each of these groups, the instruction explained, formed a quorum equal in authority to the other bodies, but with different responsibilities. The Twelve Apostles constituted “a travelling, presiding high council” that operated “under the direction of the presidency of the church . . . to build up the church, and regulate all the affairs of the same, in all nations.” The Seventy were to assist the Twelve with this responsibility. The instruction also noted that standing high councils in the stakes of Zion formed “a quorum equal in authority, in the affairs of the church, in all their decisions, to the quorum of the presidency, or to the travelling high council,” while the high council in Zion was equal in authority “to the councils of the twelve at the stakes of Zion.” However, the instruction did not clearly outline how all these bodies would work together. JS provided related information in this 2 May 1835 meeting, stating that the standing high councils in Kirtland and Zion were responsible for regulating the church in those areas, while the Twelve Apostles were responsible for regulating church branches outside of Zion and its stakes. The , meanwhile, was to oversee the church in general.
At the council, JS also gave specific direction to the Twelve, instructing them, among other things, to order themselves in their councils from the oldest to the youngest. The Seventy likewise received additional instruction; JS informed them that up to 144,000 seventies could be called by the seven presidents of the Seventy, if the work so required. A number of men were ordained to the Seventy during the meeting, and many seventies were told to hold themselves in readiness to preach when required. Many of these men subsequently preached throughout the country during the following months. The council also considered the circumstances of the in , presumably in connection with their availability to preach, and assigned and Amos Orton to help preach to the remnants of Joseph, or the American Indians.
In addition, JS discussed the anticipated deliverance of Zion, whereby church members would be able to move back to their , Missouri, lands, and he moved that the officers of the church “never give up the struggle” until Zion was redeemed or until they died. His comments about redeeming Zion during a council largely dedicated to instructing the Twelve and the Seventy suggest that these groups’ assignments were necessary components in Zion’s redemption. According to a June 1834 revelation, before Zion could be redeemed, church members must be “taught more perfectly, and have experience and know more perfectly concerning their duty.” This was certainly one aspect of the Twelve’s mission to church branches in the eastern . Likewise, preaching by the Seventy was characterized in January 1836 as helping “gather up the elect of God out of every nation,” thereby allowing Zion to “be builded, a holy city.”
served as clerk of the meeting and took the minutes. His original minutes are not extant, but two versions of the minutes were recorded. recorded an extensive account of the meeting in Minute Book 1, explaining JS’s instructions during the meeting and detailing the duties of individual members of the Seventy. also entered a version into the Record of the Twelve that he and McLellin were keeping. Hyde’s version focuses on the instruction that JS gave the Twelve Apostles, with few other details about the conference. Both sets of minutes appear to be based on the original minutes that McLellin recorded and, as such, use similar language when describing the same events.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

May 2d— 1835
According to appointment the , the a part of the , and some other of the met in this morning in order to consult the affairs of the church. &c. Conference was opened by Elder by prayer. President J. Smith Junr presiding. After conference was opened and the Twelve took their seats. he stated that it would be the duty of the twelve to appoint the oldest one of their number to preside in their councils, beginning at the oldest and so on until the youngest has presided and then beginning at the oldest again. &c. The Twelve took their seats regularly according to their ages as follows. . , , View Full Bio
& . The president then stated that the Twelve will have no right to go into or any of its and there undertake to regulate the affairs thereof where there is a standing . But it is their duty to go abroad and regulate all matters relative to the different of the Church. When the Twelve are together, or a of them in any Church, they will have authority to act independently and make decisions, and those decisions, and those decissions are valid. But where there is not a quorum they will have to do business by the voice of the Church. No standing high council has authority to go into the churches abroad and regulate the matters thereof, for this belongs to the Twelve. No High Council will ever be established only in Zion or one of its Stakes. When the twelve pass a decision it is in the name of the church, Therefore, it is valid. No individual has a right to go into any church [p. 187]

and any minister for the , unless it is by the Voice of the Church. No has a right to go into any of the church and appoint meetings or regulate the Church without the consent or advice of the presiding Elder of said branch. If the first are all occupied, and there is a call for more laborers it will be the duty of the seven presidents of the first seventy to call and ordain other Seventy and send them forth to labor, in the vineyard until if need be they set a part apart seven times Seventy, even until there shall be one hundred & forty and four thousand. The Seventy are not to attend the of the unless they are called upon or requested to by the Twelve. The twelve and the Seventy have particularly to depend upon their Ministry for their support and that of their families, and they have a right by virtue of their offices to call upon the Church to assist them.
Elder was called forward & ordained to be one of the 70. President ’s circumstances were considered relative to his traveling in the vineyard, and it was unanimously agreed & voted, that he should hold himself in readiness to go at the call of the Twelve, when the Lord opens the way. President ’s circumstances were considered and determined as the former
President ditto. President — do. President do. President do. President do. Elder ’s case and circumstances were considered and voted that he hold himself in readiness to travel in the ministry at the call of the president of the 70 when the Lord opens the way. [p. 188]

Elias Hutchings Voted that he be called upon when his circumstances will permit
Elder Henry Shibley Voted that he hold himself ready to go when called upon.
Elder do. — do do. do. voted to be called upon when his circumstances will permit.
— to go when called upon.
to be called upon when his circumstances will permit
to hold himself in readiness
Levi Gifford to be called upon when his circumstances will permit.
do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. To hold himself in readiness.
" " " Darwin Richardson " " Daniel Stevens [Stephens] adjourned for one hour [p. 189]

Met again according to adjournment with the addition of the of . The & and his council from and the & his council of .
Hiram Stratten Stratton to hold himself in readiness
’s case was called up and he was suspended as an and member until an investigation could be had before the . A complaint having been entered to the Bishop’s court against him by .
, To go when circumstances permit.
do. do do. Charles Kelly do do do do. do. do. then came forward and received his as one of the
as the former
Michael Griffith do. do. Libbeus T. Coons do. to hold himself in readiness
do. do. David Evans do. do do do Jesse Huntsman do [p. 190]

do do These men’s circumstances and cases were considered and they were disposed of as the directed.
The of and its vicinity were next called upon, or their circumstances were considered. Their names being enrolled. J. Smith Junr arose with the list in his hands and made some very appropriate remarks, relative to the deliverance of and so much of the Authority being present, he moved that we never give up the struggle for Zion, even until Death. or until Zion is Redeemed. The vote was unanimous and with apparent deep feeling. Voted that all the Elders of the are bound to travel in the World to preach the gospel with all their might mind & Strength when their circumstances will admit of it, and that the door is now opened. Motioned, seconded & voted that Elder , & Amos Orton are appointed to go and preach the gospel to the . the door to be opened by Elder and this will open a door to all the house of Joseph.
Motioned, seconded & voted. that when another is required, the presidency of the first Seventy, shall choose and set them apart from among the most experienced Elders of the Church.
Motioned, Seconded & voted, that whenever the labor of other Seventy is required and they are to be set apart & ordained to that office. Those who are residing at and the regions round about, who can come to , do so and be set apart and ordained. to that office by the in But the Presidency of the 70 are to choose of the most experienced Elders abroad and ordain & set apart to [p. 191]

that office but are not to do it at or any of the thereof.
closed by prayer by
Clerk [p. 192]