Minutes, Discourse, and Blessings, 1 March 1835

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-discourse-and-blessings-1-march-1835/1
Date: March 1, 1835
Handwriting: Handwriting of Warren Cowdery

Minutes, Discourse, and Blessings, [, Geauga Co., OH], 1 Mar. 1835. Featured version copied [not before 25 Feb. 1836] in Minute Book 1, pp. 172–186; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Minute Book 1.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On the morning of 1 March 1835, church members convened a meeting in , Ohio, apparently as a continuation of a meeting that had adjourned on 28 February. Several men appointed to the office of were given blessings in that 28 February meeting. The blessings continued in this 1 March 1835 meeting, and at least thirty-three individuals, including some not designated as seventies, were blessed. All those receiving ordinations and blessings in this meeting had participated in the expedition. According to later reminiscences, many of these blessings were performed by members of the church presidency, including JS, his , , and . The minutes indicate that several individuals who had recently been were also confirmed members of the church at the meeting, and the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper was administered. JS also gave instructions on the necessity of worthiness when partaking of the sacrament.
It is unclear who originally recorded the ordination blessings or the minutes of the meeting. later copied them into Minute Book 1.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

March 1st 1835
The met this morning (Sabbath) to proceed with the of the , There being several who had been recently present, and being expedient that they should be , and also that the should be administred to the , the business of ordination was suspended for a short time. Joseph Smith Junr addressed the Church & the council and the church upon the propriety upon the propriety of attending to this with pure hearts, and pure desirles. He touched upon the propriety of this institution in the church & urged the vast importance of doing it with acceptance to the Lord, He asked how long do you suppose a man may partake of this ordinance unworthily and the Lord not withdraw his spirit from him? How long will he thus trifle with sacred things and the Lord not give him over to the buffitings of Satan until the day of Redemption? The church should know if they are unworthy, from time to time, to partake, The servants of the Lord will be forbidden to administer it. Therefore our heart ought to humble themselves, and we to repent of our sins, and put away evil from among us. some further remarks were made and the sacrament was then administred. The council then proceeded to business and the following names were called (Viz.) , , and .

A prayer was put up that he might be strong in his mission to the , that the Lord would open to him the mysteries of the Kingdom, the [that] he be supported [p. 172]

in faith, and that he have strength to withstand all the temptations of the Adversary. That he might have wisdom to proclaim the Gospel in different languages, It was prophised [prophesied] that he would need much power at times to be delivered from his enemies. That his heart must be stedfast or he would be overcome in executing his commission; But if faithful, should have power over all things that opposed his way, and return with the Lords’ servants and receive the approbation of his Heavenly Father and the plaudits, Well done good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of thy Lord, and on thy head we these blessings. Even so Amen.
,
Because thou hast offered thy life for the release of thy brethren, who were in affliction. it is the will of thy Heavenly Father that thou shouldst bear the testimony of salvation to many people who have not heard the sound thereof. Thou shalt be a son of consolation. If the Lord commands thee to go to the Islands of the seas, his hand will support thee: If he calls thee to ride upon ships to proclaim the gospel his power will sustain thee. If thou art faithful, the Lord will make thy mission prosperous. Thou wilt have persecution as well as thy other brethren. When Thou hast executed thy mission, if it please thy God, thou shalt return and enjoy the rest of the Saints, even a thousand years and also in eternity. Even so Amen [p. 173]

Thou Shalt go forth to the nations which are afar off even to those who are at the remotest corners of the Earth. and we ask our Heavenly Father in the name of Jesus, that thy mand [mind] may expand, thy heart be enlarged and be instructed in the mysteries of Godliness. We also ask that no sin be laid to thy charge when thou art called to give an account of thy ministry. We ask the Lord to make thee a swift Messenger to the Nations, and if thou wilt set thy heart to seek and serve the Lord from this time, thou shalt go forth & be greatly blessed in calling the children of men to repentance and the Elect of the Lord to . Thou shalt endure fatigues and Hardships and not be overcome: and thou shalt be a good soldier searching out the honest in heart in the remotest corner of the earth. Thou shalt have this blessing if thou art faithful. Amen

You are not set apart as one of the but to continue as you have been, To be ready to go at the command of the Lord, where he may see proper to send thee. Thou art blessed. The Lord shall bless thee in thy basket and in thy store Thou shalt have an additional degree of wisdom Thine eyes shall yet be opened to see those things which thou hast not seen. Thou art feeble, therefore, pray that thou mayst be made strong. thou mayst be prepared to go forth as may be required of thee. We pray that thou mayst be with power with thy brethren. [p. 174]

In common with thy brethren thou shalt have much joy and also much sorrow. Thy enemies will seek thy destruction We therefore upon thee those blessings which have heretofore been pronounced upon thee even in thy . Amen.
— one of the
We confirm your ministry and set you apart as one of the 70. You shall be a witness of the Lord whithersoever you are sent, and testify of the things that are coming on the earth. You shall have the same power as has been confirmed on your brethren, with all the blessings and privileges thereunto belonging. You shall go to distant lands and if you desire it with all your heart you shall return. But if you desire you may be received up into the bosom of your Heavenly Father in Distant lands, from all trouble into the . Amen
Charles Kelly
We you to be an in the and one of the to be sent forth among the nations, to teach the gospel in the name of Jesus. Unless you seek the Lord with all your heart more than you have ever done, you shall die and not live. If you had not gone to to lay down your life for your brethren you would not now receive this ministry. But if you seek it you shall be comforted of the Lord while you are far distant among the nations. The powers & blessings necessary to fulfil this ministry shall be conferred upon you. and you shall return to be a comfort to your family, although you have wounded and grieved them. Amen [p. 175]

Thou shalt go forth and carry the gospel to the nations who sit in darkness. We upon thee the power of this ministry; if thou art faithful from this hour Thou shalt receive a fullness of Joy. Thou shalt ask and the Lord will give. Thou shalt ask and he will give again. Thou shalt see the glory of the Lord. Thou shalt see great things and contemplate mighty things. Thy heart shall desire to see the work of God roll on and thou shalt see it. We seal another another blessing upon thee. Thou shalt return with thy brethren here After thou hast labored much and suffered much, & thy coming in shall be greater than thy going out. These blessings we confirm upon thee in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen.

We you to be an in the and one of the to go into all the world to preach the gospel to every creature. You shall have the powers blessings and privileges of this ministry, equal to any of your brethren. You shall go forth, but shall return to the embraces of your family, and they shall have much peace with you. Amen.

We you to be an to go forth and preach the Gospel, & . Thou art a vessel chosen of God to bear the news of salvation to the . Thou hast long sought this mission Thou shalt go forth according to the desire of thy heart. Thou shalt see the work of the Lord prosper in thy hands. Thou shalt open the plan of salvation to those who know it not. [p. 176]

You shall be enabled to proclaim it effectually. You shall speak in all the languages whithersoever the Lord shall send thee. You shall have power over diseases, if faithful. The right hand of the Lord shall be underneath thee. The Angels shall have charge concerning thee. Thou shalt return to when thy work is done Thou shalt have many visions, and power to call many into the covenant Amen

We you an and one of the . The Lord has looked upon you and seen your desires to become an instrument to do good. You shall be sent to the nations afar off, and you shall preach to them of whom now you have no knowledge. You shall go and shall have no rest without you are engaged in your Ministry. You shall go to the remote corners of the earth and teach and preach, and bring multitudes to the truth. And you shall be an instrument to fulfil an ancient Prophecy to bring in the remnants of Moab, & Elam. Jeremiah saw you in his vision and you shall bring many multitudes to . After you have finished your ministry you shall return and embrace your companion and you both shall rejoice together: And we upon you this day, that you shall [have] part in the reign of a 1000 years on the earth. Amen.

We seal your ministry anew unto you. and you shall go as far as the Lord shall send you. And if there are Islands not yet found by the world, you are one who shall go and hunt them up and preach to all nations, and you shall have power to fulfil this your ministry. You shall be an instrument changed throughout and prepared to do good. [p. 177]

You shall have heavenly visions and the ministry of Angels shall be your lot. You shall have great faith to perform your work. You shall go to Islands that are not troubled with Priests, and convert and depopulate them, and bring them to and join your brethren with great rejoicing. amen.
.
We you to be one of the and an in the . Your tongue shall be loosed and you shall have much knowledge & wisdom to teach all the revelations which you have received through others. You shall, if you diligently seek after wisdom, not be a whit behind your Brethren in this ministry. You shall have power to fill your days with usefulness and have favor in the eyes of God, and men and not be persecuted as some of your brethren. These blessings are for you and your offspring, and finally you shall return and rejoice (if faithful) with your Brethren & family upon this land. Amen

We you to be one of the You shall be a messenger to both civilized and uncivilized and you shall be sent and you shall proclaim the gospel to both poor & rich; you shall proclaim from kingdom to kingdom and from land to land and you shall have all the powers necessary to fill this ministry with dignity, with honor and much usefulness, and in the end you shall return to your own land and enjoy the rest of the saints. Amen.
Daniel Stevens [Stephens]
Thou hast had many pronounced upon thee and we confirm them all upon thee, No man can fill this mission [p. 178]

unless he be a man of God. You shall (if very faithful) have all the powers necessary to fill this ministry. You shall travel and journey much, and do great things in the name of the Lord and bring many to the and return after having done much in the Ministry. Amen.
This being done arose and in the Spirit of God sung a song of Zion in a foreign tongue. After which he delivered a very animated address to to his brother ministers. Meeting proceeded.
Hiram Stratten [Stratton]
In the name of the Lord Jesus we you to be an and one of the . You shall have part in this ministry because the Lord has proved you, that you would lay down your life for your brethren. If you are faithful you shall have great power, and that which shall be peculiar to yourself. You have a part in this ministry and shall be able to fill it. You shall be sent afar off to preach the gospel to barbarous nations. You shall be preserved while afar off but you shall be drawn in close straits, but nevertheless you shall gather up those who will hear you: and when you return, you shall be altogether changed and be a man beloved of the Lord and of the faithful, amen

We your Ministry upon your ministry upon your head, and also you to be one of the and a President among the 70 Your mind shall become pure and chaste, and the importance of your calling shall lie near your heart from this hour. You shall preside with dignity and with honor forever. You shall have great affliction and persecution because of your office. Your enemies shall seek your life with great diligence, but if you dedicate [p. 179]

your all to God, you shall be preserved if you keep his covenant and turn away from none of it. You shall have great power and wisdom & do great good before the Lord. You shall travel from land to land and from Kingdom to Kingdom. and you shall stand before and preach to Kings, and have power over great men, and poor men. & show forth signs and wonders to whom signs and wonders will be profitable, and in a good old age you shall return with rejoicing and bring many sheaves with you, Then shall you rest and your last days shall be your best days. Amen.

We you and set you apart to be one of the to preach the Gospel to the . If you seek with all your heart you shall go to other lands and preach the gospel in other tongues & do a good and a great work. You shall have success in your ministry, and convert many in the nations who will hear you and lead them to the Land of your home Amen.

We you to be an in the . You have seen affliction with the children of . You shall see many days & great events rolling one after another and many scenes rolling together. If you desire it with all your heart you shall stand on the land of Zion when the Lord descends. You shall have much strength. Your mind shall be filled with wisdom. You shall be as those who are raised up from infancy in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. You shall have the ministring of Angels to prepare you for your many duties Amen [p. 180]

Blessed thou art and blessed shalt thou be for thou art one of the You shall go to the nations and teach them in their own tongues, the things of the Kingdom. You shall be delivered from all your enemies and go and preach from land to land. and you shall yet have all the promises that the Lord has ever given in this church fulfilled. You shall Lead many to and yet you shall have rejoicings with your family and no man shall take your blessings Even so Amen.

We you to be an in the and one of the . May you be sanctified and filled with light and intelligence. That the importance and duty of your office may be near your heart. You shall go to all the nations afar off and to the Islands of the sea. You shall speak languages that you have never heard even twelve God will prepare you for a great work & you shall do it. You shall have power given you to perform all the duties of your calling, and you shall bear a testimony that shall convince many. And if you are faithful, you shall in the end of your ministry, return to this land with much rejoicing Amen.

We you to be an in the . When you did obey the gospel the eye of the Lord was upon you, and you are now called and set apart. You shall go to many land & Islands, where missionaries are now stationed, and some of them shall receive the truth at your mouth. You shall have powers over all weapons formed against you. You shall see the Heavens opened and the spirits of the Just shall min [p. 181]

ister to you and you receive great wisdom from the Lord, and do great good in his name. When you are old you shall return to your native land. And you and your posterity are blessed and shall be to the latest generation, because you will run when the Lord calls & go when he sends. even so Amen.

We set you apart to be one of the . You are young and we pray the Lord to guard you against the follies of youth. That you may be humble and conquer all your evil propensities incident to youth. But if you do not forsake all evil when you go forth among the nations, you shall never return, It is with you death or victory. You shall go to many nations and kingdoms, but you must begin from this very hour to reform. If you do you shall do great good and bring [to] pass much righteousness, because you have desired it. You shall become a polished shaft, and rejoice amidst many converts & return with much joy to your native land. We seal blessings upon you upon condition of your faithfulness— Amen.

We renew upon you your commission, and also set you apart to be one of the . You shall be a witness not only to other nations but also to this. You shall yet declare that you have seen the Heavens opened & and that the Lord Jesus lives because you have seen him: And you shall be ministred unto by holy Angels. You shall speak to them in their own language, and you shall have great wisdom to teach and to set in order the things of Jesus. And you shall see good days and many of them. A multitude of blessings are in the Heavens for you. Finally you shall return to your native land with much rejoicing Amen. [p. 182]

We you to be an & one of the and because you have been willing to suffer & die for your brethren. You are chosen to go forth and bear good tidings to the nations, even those who are afar off, and although your mission will frequently lead you among rude nations, Yet if you are faithful in all things you shall be blessed among them. They will not seek your life, for you shall be a saviour to them, and bring them rejoicing to in peace. Amen.
.
You are a child. Your mind is yet tender, therefore, you are not of mature age to go forth, but we secure unto you the holy ministry. You shall yet, if faithful be . You will live in a day of great howling and mourning among the nations. You shall [have] power to be a comforter of many, and teach them the way of life, and tell them of a land of safety, and will hear you and you shall push many people to . And if you desire it with all your heart you shall stand upon the earth when the Saviour comes and reign with him in glory after he comes. but if you desire it you shall be taken as Enoch Elijah, Even so, Amen.
.
We you to be an in the of God to go forth and preach the Gospel. May the past history of your life serve as an everlasting lesson to you. For you must go to distant nations and from this hour you must begin to prepare your business, for in temporal labors you shall not be prospered. Therefore, go forth and preach the gospel and you shall live of the gospel. You shall be among the [p. 183]

nations that are afar off and you shall speak unto them in their own tongues, and stand before the great ones of the earth and cause them to tremblle before the mighty power of God manifested through you. And if you are faithful you shall return and rejoice in this land again.
.
We confirm the of your previous upon you. You shall be sent among the Nations that are afar off and you shall have visions and knowledge, and not be a whit behind the chiefest of your brethren of the same office, and although your enemies shall be furiously enraged against you and should hunt you, & hunt you, but they shall not harm you. but you shall go back and teach and convince the honest in heart. And you shall have all power that is necessary even over waters, floods, fires & winds in order to accomplish your ministry. And finally you (after doing much good) shall return, being called the friend of God. Amen
Darwin Richardson
We you an and one of the . You have given testimony that you were willing to lay down your life. The Lord will, therefore, from this hour give you great light, understanding and wisdom and power also, for the Lord will send you afar off and you shall teach a multitude of nations in their own tongues, and you shall go [to] the Islands and teach, and even depopulate them for you shall lead them to . Your enemies shall not have power over you, though they may desire it, But when you are a very old man you shall stand on the earth and see the Lord Jesus appear. And if you desire it you shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye, and enter upon the Millenial reign. Amen [p. 184]

We your Ministry upon you and also set you apart to be one of the and also to be one of the of that Mission to preside with thy brethren. You shall magnify this high calling and your heart shall be much expanded to love mankind and desire their salvation. You shall travel much and preach much. work much righteousness and exert all your powers in going forth to do good from nation to nation & from land to land. You shall have much persecution and shall be in perils oft. Your enemies will seek your life much and cunningly. But if you will consecrate your life and your all and be faithful you shall overcome and be preserved) and at the end of your ministry you shall return with singing and rejoicing. You shall have power over fire water and all evil, You shall be one of the horns of Joseph to push the nationgs nations together from the ends of the earth These blessings we pronounce upon you, and none shall take them from you if you are faithful. Amen.

Being an , in the , his office was confirmed upon him and great blessings pronounced upon him. That he should be a consoler and comforter of the poor so long as he should live & that he should have visions of Heaven. &c. Amen
Elias Hutchings,
, but no record of prophecy or blessings
Henry Shibley
We you to be one of the . You shall do great good in your father's family, for they shall listen to your voice. You shall be delivered from prison, into which thou shalt be cast in thy old age. Thou shalt live to a good old age and bring to pass much righteousness. [p. 185]

If thou desirest to go to the ends of the earth, thou mayest Thy heart shall be enlarged. Thou shalt escape all the calamities which are coming on the earth. and if thou desirest thou mayest bring many souls to Jesus. Thou shalt be able to comprehend all things concerning this Kingdom. Great shall be thy blessing. Thou shalt be able to speak and no man shall gainsay. Thou shalt have power to escape the hand of thine enemies. Thy life shall be sought with untiring zeal, but thou shalt escape; If it please thee, and thou desirest thou shalt have the power voluntarily to lay down thy life to glorify God. Thou shalt be spared to preside over one of the of , which shall hereafter be appointed. and thou shalt be unto it like one of the seven Angels who were appointed over the seven Churches. Amen

Thou art blessed, thou shalt stand before the great men of the earth. Thy mind shall expand, and thou shalt be enabled to waft thyself as upon the wings of the wind. Thou shalt stand according to thy desires and see the face of thy Redeemer. Thy blessings are confirmed upon thee. The Heavenly hosts are rejoicing over thee. Twice thou hast been to the Land of . The Lord has sustained thee for a wise purpose. Thy mind and thy [heart] shall be enlarged, and thou shalt make known the gospel to the great ones of the earth. And shall yet lead them to Zion. If thou desirest thou shalt rise upon the wings of the morning and not be an inhabitant of the grave, Thou shalt be one who shall preside over Zion. All these blessings we and confirm upon thee Amen [p. 186]