════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
SOURCE: Joseph Smith Papers — Journal, 1835–1836 (First Vision Account)
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/journal-1835-1836/23
DATE: 1835-11-09
EVENT: First Vision (Spring 1820) — 1835 Firsthand Account
PAGES EXTRACTED: 5 (pages 22–26 of journal)
EXTRACTED: 2026-04-20 21:43

NOTES: Joseph Smith's second known firsthand account of the First Vision, recorded by scribe Warren Parrish in JS's journal on 9 November 1835 during a visit from Robert Matthews ("Joshua, the Jewish minister"). This is the WRITTEN-DATE copy (1835-11-09). The EVENT-DATE copy is filed under 1820-04. This account uniquely mentions seeing "many angels" and describes a "pillar of fire" rather than "pillar of light." It emphasizes the witness that "Jesus Christ is the son of God."
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

The journal records Joseph Smith's activities during a period when he viewed himself as divinely commissioned to gather God's people and prepare for the Second Coming, with the Kirtland Temple as the centerpiece. The November 9, 1835 entry describes a visit to JS by Robert Matthews, more commonly known as the Prophet Matthias. His visit prompted JS to relate, as JS characterized it, a "brief history of the establishment of the Church of Christ in these last days." A visitor later in the week heard a similar recounting, though one recorded in much less detail.

═══ ACCOUNT TEXT ═══

[--- Page 22 ---]
Monday morning 9th. after breckfast I went to the Council room, and seated myself at the table when a man came in, and introduced himself to me, calling himself Joshua the Jewish minister. his appearance was some what singular, having a beard about 3 inches in length which is quite grey, also his hair is long and considerably silvered with age. I soon commenced talking upon the subject of religion and after I had made some remarks concerning the bible I commenced giving him a relation of the circumstances connected with the coming forth of the book of Mormon, as follows— being wrought up in my mind, respecting the subject of religion and looking at the different systems taught the children of men, I knew not who was right or who was wrong and I considered it of the first importance that I should be right, in matters that involve eternal consequences; being thus perplexed in mind I retired to the silent grove and bowd down before the Lord, under a realizing sense that he had said (if the bible be true) ask and you shall receive knock and it shall be opened seek and you shall find and again, if any man lack wisdom let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not; information was what I most desired at this time, and with a fixed determination to obtain it, I called upon the Lord for the first time, in the place above stated or in other words I made a fruitless attempt to pray, my toung seemed to be swolen in my mouth, so that I could not utter, I heard a noise behind me like some person walking towards me, I strove again to pray, but could not, the noise of walking seemed to draw nearer, I sprung up on my feet, and

[--- Page 23 ---]
and looked around, but saw no person or thing that was calculated to produce the noise of walking, I kneeled again my mouth was opened and my toung liberated, and I called on the Lord in mighty prayer, a pillar of fire appeared above my head, it presently rested down upon me head, and filled me with joy unspeakable, a personage appeard in the midst, of this pillar of flame which was spread all around, and yet nothing consumed, another personage soon appeard like unto the first, he said unto me thy sins are forgiven thee, he testifyed unto me that Jesus Christ is the son of God; and I saw many angels in this vision I was about 14. years old when I received this first communication; When I was about 17 years old I saw another vision of angels in the night season after I had retired to bed I had not been a sleep, but was meditating upon my past life and experience, I was very concious that I had not kept the commandments, and I repented hartily for all my sins and transgression, and humbled myself before Him whose eyes are over all things, all at once the room was illuminated above the brightness of the sun an angel appeared before me, his hands and feet were a little above the floor of the room and he stood before me clothed with purity inexpressible, he said unto me I am a messenger sent by the commandment of the Lord to all parts of his vineyard to deliver such a message as I now deliver unto you, he then proceeded to unfold to me the prophesy of Joel, also gave a history of the aborigines of our country, and said they were literal descendants of Abraham he represented them as being once an enlightened and intelligent people, possessing a correct knowledge of the gospel, and the plan of restoration and redemption he said this history was written and deposited not far from that place, and that it was our Brotherens privilege if obediant to the commandments of the Lord, to obtain and translate the same by the means of the Urim and Thummim, which were deposited for that purpose with the record. "that by them I could also enquire and obtain of the Lord."

[--- Page 24–26 ---]
After the angel had departed, I found the prophecies he had quoted and many others, which I had not before particularly noticed, had been literally fulfilled. He paid me another visit, the same night one more again the third time repeated the same things over. At the usual time I arose from my bed and, as a matter of course went to work. The powers of darkness strove hard against me. I called upon the Lord, by whom I was visited and directed to go and obtain the record. Having made known the circumstance to my family, I proceeded to the place, and was shown by the angel where the record was deposited. Said Angel appeared to me 3 more times and gave me charge concerning the record.

I obtained them and the Urim and Thummim with them by the means of which I translated the plates and thus came the book of Mormon. After which I received the holy Priesthood by the ministering of Angels to administer the letter of the Gospel. The law and commandments as they were given unto me, and the ordinances. I obtained the high priesthood after the holy order of the son of the living God, and a continuation of the blessings of God to me.

In the course of the conversation, Joshua seemed at first disposed to discuss the matter, but at length got a good deal softened and acknowledged that these things were truly marvelous. He then returned to his carriage and I retired.
