D&C 9 — Doctrine and Covenants, 1835

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Doctrine and Covenants, 1835' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09). The edition's own printed verse counters are removed — line numbers are 2013 verses only.
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Section 35 • Revelation, April 1829–D D&C 9 SECTION XXXV. Revelation given to Oliver Cowdery, April, 1829.

1
Behold I say unto you, my son, that because you did not translate according to that which you desired of me, and did commence again to write for my servant Joseph Smith, jr. even so I would that you should continue until you have finished this record, which I have intrusted unto him :
2
and then behold other records have I, that I will give unto you power that you may assist to translate.
3
Be patient my son, for it is wisdom in me, and it is not expedient that you should translate at this present time.
4
Behold the work which you are called to do, is to write for my servant Joseph;
5
and behold it is because that you did not continue as you commenced, when you began to translate, that I have taken away this privilege from you.
6
Do not murmur my son, for it is wisdom in me that I have dealt with you after this manner.
7
Behold you have not understood, you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought, save it was to ask me;
8
but behold I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right, I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you: therefore, you shall feel that it is right;
9
but if it be not right, you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought, that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong: therefore, you cannot write that which is sacred, save it be given you from me.
10
Now if you had known this, you could have translated; nevertheless, it is not expedient that you should translate now.
11
Behold it was expedient when you commenced, but you feared and the time is past, and it is not expedient now:
12
for, do you not behold that I have given unto my servant Joseph sufficient strength, whereby it is made up? and neither of you have I condemned.
13
Do this thing which I have commanded you, and you shall prosper. Be faithful, and yield to no temptation.
14
Stand fast in the work wherewith I have called you, and a hair of your head shall not be lost, and you shall be lifted up at the last day.Amen.
