D&C 42 — EMS, Feb 1835

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'EMS, Feb 1835' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09).
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Revelation, 9 and 23 February 1831, excerpt D&C 42:12–77 OF COVENANTS FOR THE CHURCH OF THE LATTER DAY SAINTS.

1
[not present in this edition]
2
[not present in this edition]
3
[not present in this edition]
4
[not present in this edition]
5
[not present in this edition]
6
[not present in this edition]
7
[not present in this edition]
8
[not present in this edition]
9
[not present in this edition]
10
[not present in this edition]
11
[not present in this edition]
12
And again, the elders, priests and teachers of this church, shall teach the principles of my gospel which are in the bible and the , in the which is the fulness of the gospel;
13
and they shall observe the covenants and church articles to do them, and these shall be their teachings, as they shall be directed by the Spirit;
14
and the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith, and if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach.—
15
And all this ye shall observe to do as I have commanded, concerning your teaching, until the fulness of my scriptures are given.
16
And as ye shall lift up your voices by the Comforter, ye shall speak and prophesy as seemeth me good;
17
for behold, the Comforter knoweth all things, and beareth record of the Father and of the Son.
18
And now, behold I speak unto the church: Thou shalt not kill; and he that kills shall not have forgiveness, in this world, nor in the world to come.
19
And again, I say, thou shalt not kill; but he that killeth shall die.
20
Thou shalt not steal; and he that stealeth and will not repent, shall be cast out.
21
Thou shalt not lie; he that lieth and will not repent, shall be cast out.—
22
Thou shalt love thy wife with all thy heart, and shall cleave unto her and none else;
23
and he that looketh upon a woman to lust after her, shall deny the faith, and shall not have the Spirit, and if he repents not he shall be cast out.
24
Thou shalt not commit adultery; and he that committeth adultery and repenteth not, shall be cast out;
25
but he that has committed adultery and repents with all his heart, and forsaketh it, and doeth it no more, thou shalt forgive;
26
but if he doeth it again, he shall not be forgiven, but shall be cast out.—
27
Thou shalt not speak evil of thy neighbor, nor do him any harm.
28
Thou knowest my laws concerning these things are given in my scriptures; he that sinneth and repenteth not, shall be cast out.
29
If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep all my commandments.
30
A nd behold, thou wilt remember the poor, and consecrate of thy properties for their support that which thou hast to impart unto them, with a covenant and a deed which cannot be broken—
31
and in as much as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me— and they shall be laid before the bishop of my church and his counsellors, two of the elders, or high priests, such as he shall or has appointed and set apart for that purpose.
32
And it shall come to pass, that after they are laid before the bishop of my church, and after that he has received these testimonies concerning the consecration of the properties of my church, that they cannot be taken from the church, agreeably to my commandments, every man shall be made accountable unto me, a steward over his own property, or that which he has received by consecration, in as much as is sufficient for himself and family.
33
And again, if their shall be properties in the hands of the church, or any individuals of it, more than is necessary for their support, after this first consecration, which is a residue, to be consecrated unto the bishop, it shall be kept to administer to those who have not, from time to time, that every man who has need may be amply supplied, and receive according to his wants.
34
Therefore, the residue shall be kept in my store house, to administer to the poor and the needy, as shall be appointed by the high council of the church, and the bishop and his counsel,
35
and for the purpose of purchasing lands for the public benefit of the church, and building houses of worship, and building up of the New Jerusalem which is hereafter to be revealed,
36
that my covenant people may be gathered in one in that day when I shall come to my temple. And this I do for the salvation of my people.
37
And it shall come to pass, that he that sinneth and repenteth not, shall be cast out of the church , and shall not recive again that which he has consecrated unto the poor and the needy of my church, or in other words, unto me,
38
for in as much as ye do it unto the least of these ye do it unto me—
39
f or it shall come to pass, that which I spake by the mouths of my prophets, shall be fulfilled; for I will consecrate of the riches of those who embrace my gospel among the Gentiles, unto the poor of my people who are of the house of Israel.
40
And again, thou shalt not be proud in thy heart, let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands;
41
and let all things be done in cleanliness before me.
42
Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread, nor wear the garments of the laborer.
43
And whosoever among you are sick, and have not faith to be healed, but believeth, shall be nourished with all tenderness with herbs and mild food, and that not by the hand of an enemy.
44
A nd the elders of the church, two or more, shall be called, and shall pray for and lay their hands upon them in my name, and if they die they shall die unto me, and if they live they shall live unto me.
45
Thou shalt live together in love, in so much that thou shalt weep for the loss of them that die, and more especially for those that have not hope of a glorious resurrection.
46
And it shall come to pass, that those that die in me, shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them,
47
and they that die not in me, wo unto them, for their death is bitter!
48
And again, it shall come to pass, that he that has faith in me to be healed, and is not appointed unto death, shall be healed:
49
Hh>e who has faith to see shall see;
50
he who has faith to hear shall hear:
51
the lame who have faith to leap shall leap;
52
and they who have not faith to do these things, but believe in me, have power to become my sons: and in as much as they break not my laws, thou shalt bear their infirmities.
53
Thou shalt stand in the place of thy stewardship:
54
t hou shalt not take thy brother’s garment; thou shalt pay for that which thou shalt receive of thy brother;
55
a nd if thou obtainest more than that which would be for thy support, thou shalt give it into my storehouse, that all things may be done according to that which I have said.
56
Thou shalt ask, and my scriptures shall be given as I have appointed, and they shall be preserved in safety;
57
and it is expedient that thou shouldst hold thy peace concerning them, and not teach them until ye have reeived them in full.
58
And I give unto you a commandment<, that then ye shall teach them unto all men; for they shall be taught unto all nations, kindreds, tongues and people.
59
Thou shalt take the things which thou hast received, which have been given unto thee in my scriptures for a law, to be my law, to govern my church;
60
and he that doeth according to these things, shall be saved, and he that doeth them not shall be damned, if he continues.
61
If thou shalt ask, thou shalt receive revelation upon revelation, knowledge upon knowledge, that thou mayest know the mysteries, and the peaceable things ; that which bringeth joy, that which bringeth life eternal.
62
Thou shalt ask, and it shall be revealed unto you in my own due time, where the New Jerusalem shall be built.
63
And behold, it shall come to pass, that my servants shall be sent forth to the east, and to the west, to the north, and to the south;
64
and even now, let him that goeth to the east, teach them that shall be converted to flee to the west; and this in consequence of that which is coming on the earth, and of secret combinations.
65
Behold thou shalt observe all these things, and great shall be thy reward; for unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom, but unto the world it is not given to know them .
66
Ye shall observe t he laws which ye have received, and be faithful.
67
A nd ye shall hereafter receive church covenants, such as shall be sufficient to establish you, both here, and in the New Jerusalem.
68
Therefore, he that lacketh wisdom, let him ask of me, and I will give him liberally, and a pbraid him not.
69
Lift up your hearts and rejoice, for unto you the kingdom, or in other words, the keys of the church, have been given; even so Amen.
70
The priests and teachers shall have their stewardships, even as the members,
71
and the elders , or high priests who are appointed to assist the bishop as counsellors, in all things are to have their families supported out of the property which is consecrated to the bishop, for the good of the poor, and for other purposes, as before mentioned;
72
or they are to receive a just remuneration for all their services; either a stewardship, or otherwise, as may be thought best, or decidedby the councellors and bishop.
73
And the bishop also, shall receive his support, or a just remuneration for all his services, in the church.
74
Behold, verily I say unto you, that whatever persons among you having put away their companions for the cause of fornication, or in other words, if they shall testify before you in all lowliness of heart that this is the case, ye shall not cast them out from among you;
75
but if ye shall find that any persons have left their companions for the sake of adultery, and they themselves are the offenders, and their companions are living, they shall be cast out from among you.
76
And again I say unto you, that ye shall be watchful and careful, with all inquiry, that ye receive none such among you if they are married,
77
and if they are not married, they shall repent of all their sins, or ye shall not receive them.
78
[not present in this edition]
79
[not present in this edition]
80
[not present in this edition]
81
[not present in this edition]
82
[not present in this edition]
83
[not present in this edition]
84
[not present in this edition]
85
[not present in this edition]
86
[not present in this edition]
87
[not present in this edition]
88
[not present in this edition]
89
[not present in this edition]
90
[not present in this edition]
91
[not present in this edition]
92
[not present in this edition]
93
[not present in this edition]
