Discourse, 12 November 1835

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-12-november-1835/1
Date: November 12, 1835
Handwriting: Handwriting of Warren Parrish

JS, Discourse, [, Geauga Co., OH], 12 Nov. 1835. Featured version copied [ca. 12 Nov. 1835] in JS, Journal, 1835–1836, pp. 30–35; handwriting of ; JS Collection, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, 1835–1836.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 12 November 1835, JS met with nine of the and counseled them to prepare for the to be held in the , when complete, and for the of divine power that had been promised in earlier revelations. The discourse he delivered that day, featured here, presented a more detailed description of the purposes for the House of the Lord and of the long-anticipated events that were to take place there.
Since the Twelve’s return to , Ohio, in late September 1835 from a mission to the eastern , JS had instructed them several times regarding the solemn assembly and the endowment of power they were to receive in the . On 5 October, he told them that they should “attend this fall the solemn assembly of the first for the organization of the , and attend to the of the and to prepare their hearts in all humility for an endowment with power from on high.” The apostles “all agreed with one accord” to follow this instruction. About a month later, JS dictated a revelation that chastised the Twelve for being insufficiently humble and reminded them “they must all humble themselves before Me, before they will be accounted worthy to receive an endowment to go forth in my name unto all nations.” The revelation encouraged the apostles to “repent speedily and prepare their hearts for the solem assembly and for the great day which is to come.” In the discourse featured here, JS continued to urge the Twelve to repent and prepare for the endowment of power, with the promise that “all who are prepared and are sufficiently pure to abide the presence of the Saviour will see him in the solem assembly.”
In this 12 November discourse, JS gave, perhaps for the first time, specific details and instruction on what was to occur at the solemn assembly. He called particular attention to the purification ritual of foot washing. While other contemporary religious denominations viewed foot washing as an act of humility or as preparatory to receiving , JS and the Latter-day Saints focused on purification, understanding the washing of feet as a ritual to liberate recipients from the sins of the world. In January 1833, at the formation of the School of the Prophets, JS formally received elders into the school by washing their feet. According to , JS performed the ritual, or the “washing of the deciples feet,” on each attendee of the inaugural class, following the precedent set by Jesus at the Last Supper. Performance of foot washing ceased, however, after the initial term of the school. As demonstrated in the discourse featured here, JS was preparing to reintroduce the practice in the . Three days after the dedication of the House of the Lord on 27 March 1836, the long-awaited solemn assembly was held, and it included the washing of the feet of priesthood officers.
JS’s meeting with the apostles began at six o’clock in the evening and opened with singing and prayer before JS’s discourse. Nine of the apostles attended, though which nine goes unspecified. Following JS’s remarks, “the brethren expressed their gratifycation for the instruction [he] had given them.”

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

This evening viz the 12th at 6 oclock meet with the . by their request, 9 of them were present [p. 30]

opened by singing & prayer, and I made some remarks as follows;— I am happy in the enjoyment of this opportunity of meeting with this council on this occasion, I am satisfyed that the spirit of the Lord is here, and I am satisfied with all the brethren present, and I need not say that you have my utmost confidence, and that I intend to uphold, you to the uttermost, for I am well aware that you have to sustain my character against the vile calumnies and reproaches of this ungodly generation and that you delight in so doing:— darkness prevails, at this time as it was, at the time Jesus Christ was about to be crucified, the powers of darkness strove to obscure the glorious sun of righteousness that began to dawn upon the world, and was soon to burst in great blessings upon the heads of the faithful, and let me tell you brethren that great blessings awate us at this time and will soon be poured out upon us if we are faithful in all things, for we are even entitled to greater blessings than they were, because they had the person of Christ with them, to instruct them in the great plan of salvation, his personal presence we have not, therefore we need great faith on account of our peculiar circumstances and I am determined to do all that I can to uphold you, although I may do many things invertaintly [inadvertently] that are not right in the sight of God; you want to know many things that are before you, that you may know how to prepare your selves for the [p. 31]

great things that God is about to bring to pass; but there is one great deficiency or obstruction, in the way that deprives us of the greater blessings, and in order to make the foundation of this complete and permanent, we must remove this obstruction, which is to attend to certain duties that we have not as yet attended to; I supposed I had established this church on a permanent foundation when I went to the and indeed I did so, for if I had been taken away it would have been enough, but I yet live, and therefore God requires more at my hands:— The item to which I wish the more particularly to call your attention to night is the of , this we have not done as yet but it is necessary now as much as it was in the days of the Saviour, and we must have a place prepared, that we may attend to this ordinance, aside from the world; we have not desired much from the hand of the Lord, with that faith and obediance that we ought, yet we have enjoyed great blessings, and we are not so sensible of this as we should be; When or wher has God suffered one of the witnesses or of this church to fall? never nor nowhere amidst all the calamities and judgments that have befallen the inhabitants of the earth his almighty arm has sustained us, men and Devils have raged and spent the malice in vain. [p. 32]

we must have all things prepared and call our as the Lord has us, that we may be able to accomplish his great work: and it must be done in Gods own way, the must be prepared, and the solem assembly called and organized in it according to the order of the house of God and in it we must attend to the of ; it was never intended for any but , it is calculated to unite our hearts, that we may be one in feeling and sentiment and that our faith may be strong, so that satan cannot over throw us, nor have any power over us,— the you are so anxious about you cannot comprehend now, nor could Gabriel explain it to the understanding of your dark minds, but strive to be prepared in your hearts, be faithful in all things that when we meet in the solem assembly that is such as God shall name out of all the official members, will meet, and we must be clean evry whit, let us be faithful and silent brethren, and if God gives you a manifestation, keep it to yourselves, be watchful and prayerful, and you shall have a prelude of those joys that God will pour out on that day, do not watch for iniquity in each other if you do you will not get an endowment for God will not bestow it on such; but if we are faithful and live by every word that procedes forth from the mouth of God I will venture to prophesy that we shall get a [p. 33]

blessing that will be worth remembering if we should live as long as John the Revelator, our blessings will be such as we have not realized before, nor in this generation. The order of the house of God has and ever will be the same, even after Christ comes, and after the termination of the thousand years it will be the same, and we shall finally roll into the of God and enjoy it forever;— you need an brethren in order that you may be prepared and able to overcome all things, and those that reject your testimony will be damned the sick will be healed the lame made to walk the deaf to hear and the blind to see through your instrumentality;
But let me tell you that you will not have power after the endowment to heal those who have not faith, nor to benifit them, for you might as well expect to benefit a devil in hell as such an one, who is possessed of his spirit and are willing to keep it for they are habitations for devils and only fit for his society but when you are endowed and prepared to preach the gospel to all nations kindred and toungs in there own languages you must faithfully warn all and bind up the testimony and up the law and the destroying angel will follow close at your heels and execute his tremendeous mission upon the children of disobediance, and destroy [p. 34]

the workers of iniquity, while the saints will be gathered out from among them and stand in holy places ready to meet the bride groom when he comes.—
I feel disposed to speak a few words more to you my brethren concerning the , all who are prepared and are sufficiently pure to abide the presence of the Saviour will see him in the . [p. 35]