Discourse, 2 May 1835, as Reported by William E. McLellin–B

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-2-may-1835-as-reported-by-william-e-mclellin-b/1
Date: May 2, 1835
Handwriting: Handwriting of Orson Hyde

JS, Discourse, , Geauga Co., OH, 2 May 1835. Featured version copied [ca. May 1835] in “Record of the Transactions of the Twelve,” pp. 6–7, in Patriarchal Blessing Book 2; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Record of the Twelve, 14 Feb.–28 Aug. 1835.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Minutes and Discourse, 2 May 1835, as Reported by William E. McLellin–A.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

J Smith Jun arose and made many remarks, among which were the following. “It will be the duty of the when in to take their seats together according to their ages. The oldest to be seated at the head, and preside in the first council, the next oldest in the second; and so on until the youngest has presided”.
The twelve Apostles have no right to go into Zion or any of its where there is a regular established, to regulate any matters pertaining thereunto: But it is their duty to go abroad and regulate and set in order all matters relative to the different of this .
When the twelve are all together or a of them in any church, they have authority to act independently of the church and form decisions and those decisions will be valid; but when there is not a quorum of them together, they must transact business by the common consent of the church.
No standing has authority to go into the churches abroad and regulate the matters thereof, for this belongs to the Twelve. [p. 6]

No standing will ever be established except in or one of its .
When the pass a decision, it is in the name of the , therefore, it is valid.
No of the church has authority to go into any thereof and any minister for the church unless it is by the voice of that branch. No has authority to go into any branch of the church and appoint meetings or attempt to regulate the affairs of the church without the advice and consent of the presiding Elder of that branch.
If the first are all employed and there is a call for more labourers in the vineyard it will be the the duty of the seven presidents of the first seventy to call and ordain other seventy and send them forth to labour until, if need be, they set apart seven times seventy, and even until there are one hundred and forty & four thousand thus set apart to the ministry. The seventy are not to attend the of the Twelve, unless they are called upon or requested so to do by the twelve.
The twelve and the seventy have particularly to depend upon their ministry for their support and that of their families, and they have a right by virtue of their offices to call upon the churches to assist them. [p. 7]