Discourse, 2 May 1835, as Reported by William E. McLellin–A

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-2-may-1835-as-reported-by-william-e-mclellin-a/1
Date: May 2, 1835
Handwriting: Handwriting of Warren Cowdery

JS, Discourse, , Geauga Co., OH, 2 May 1835. Featured version copied [not before 25 Feb. 1836] in Minute Book 1, pp. 187–188; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Minute Book 1.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Minutes and Discourse, 2 May 1835, as Reported by William E. McLellin–A.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

The president then stated that the Twelve will have no right to go into or any of its and there undertake to regulate the affairs thereof where there is a standing . But it is their duty to go abroad and regulate all matters relative to the different of the Church. When the Twelve are together, or a of them in any Church, they will have authority to act independently and make decisions, and those decisions, and those decissions are valid. But where there is not a quorum they will have to do business by the voice of the Church. No standing high council has authority to go into the churches abroad and regulate the matters thereof, for this belongs to the Twelve. No High Council will ever be established only in Zion or one of its Stakes. When the twelve pass a decision it is in the name of the church, Therefore, it is valid. No individual has a right to go into any church [p. 187]

and any minister for the , unless it is by the Voice of the Church. No has a right to go into any of the church and appoint meetings or regulate the Church without the consent or advice of the presiding Elder of said branch. If the first are all occupied, and there is a call for more laborers it will be the duty of the seven presidents of the first seventy to call and ordain other Seventy and send them forth to labor, in the vineyard until if need be they set a part apart seven times Seventy, even until there shall be one hundred & forty and four thousand. The Seventy are not to attend the of the unless they are called upon or requested to by the Twelve. The twelve and the Seventy have particularly to depend upon their Ministry for their support and that of their families, and they have a right by virtue of their offices to call upon the Church to assist them. [p. 188]