Discourse, 16 January 1836

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-16-january-1836/1
Date: January 16, 1836
Handwriting: Handwriting of Warren Parrish and unidentified scribe

JS, Discourse, , Geauga Co., OH, 16 Jan. 1836. Version copied [ca. 16 Jan. 1836] in JS, Journal, 1835–1836, pp. 122–124; handwriting of and unidentified scribe; JS Collection, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, 1835–1836.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Minutes, 16 Jan. 1836.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

I observed that we had heard them patiently and in turn should expect to be heard patiently also; and first I remarked that it was necessary that the 12 should state whether they were determined to persevere in the work of the Lord, whether the are able to satisfy them or not; vote called and carried in the affirmative unaminously; I then said to them that I had not lost confidence in them, and that they had no reason to suspect my confidence, and that I would be willing to be weighed in the scale of truth today in this matter, and risk it in the day of judgment; and as it respects the chastning contained in the letter in question which I acknowledge might have been expressed in too harsh language; which was not intentional and I ask your forgiveness in as much as I have hurt your feelings; but nevertheless, the letter that wrote back to while the twelve were at the east was harsh also and I was willing to set the one against the other; I next proceeded to explain the subject of the duty of the twelve; and their authority which is next to the present presidency, and that the arangement of the assembly in this place on the 15 inst in placing the of next [to] the presidency was because the buisness to be transacted was buisness that related to that body in particular which was to [p. 122]

fill the several in ; not because they were first in office, and that the arangement was most Judicious that could be made on the occassion also the , are not subject to any other than the ; viz. myself and — I also stated to the 12, that I do not countinance the harsh language of to them neither in myself nor any other man, although I have sometimes spoken too harsh from the impulse of the moment and inasmuch as I have wounded your feelings brethren I ask your forgivness, for I love you and will hold you up with all my heart in all righteousness before the Lord, and before all men, for be assured brethren I am willing to stem the torrent of all opposition; in storms in tempests in thunders and lightning by sea and by land in the wilderness or among fals brethren, or mobs or wherever God in his providence may call us and I am determined that neither hights nor depths principalities nor powers things present or to come nor any other creature shall separate me from you; and I will now covenant with you before God that I will not listen too nor credit, any derogatory report against any of you nor condemn you upon any testimony beneath the heavens, short of that testimony which is infalible, untill I can see you face to face and know of a surity [p. 123]

and I do place unlimited confidence in your word for I believe you to be men of truth, and I ask the same of you, when I tell you any thing that you place equal confidence in my word for I will not tell you I know anything which I do not know— but I have already consumed more time than I intended to when I commenced and I will now give way to my colleagues [p. 124]