Discourse, 30 March 1836

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-30-march-1836/1
Date: March 30, 1836
Handwriting: Handwriting

JS, Discourse, , Geauga Co., OH, 30 Mar. 1836. Version copied [ca. 30 Mar. 1836] in JS, Journal, 1835–1836, pp. 188–189; unidentified handwriting; JS Collection, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, 1835–1836.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Minutes, 30 Mar. 1836.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

I made the following remarks, that the time that we were required to tarry in to be would be fulfilled in a few days, and then the would go forth and each must stand for himself, that it was not necessary for them to be sent out two by two as in former times; but to go in all meekness in sobriety and preach Jesus Christ & him crucified not to contend with others on the account of their faith or systems of religion but pursue a steady course, this I delivered by way of , and all that observe them not will pull down persecution upon thier heads, while those who do shall always be filled with the Holy Ghost, this I pronounced as a prophesy, sealed with a & amen. Also that the are not called to serve tables or preside over churches to settle difficulties, but to preach the gospel and build them up, and set others who do not belong to these to preside over them who are — the twelve also are not to serve tables, but to bear the to all nations, and unlock them and call upon the seventies to follow after them and assist them. The 12 are at liberty to go wheresoever they will [p. 188]

and if one shall say, I wish to go to such a place let all the rest say Amen.
The are at liberty to go to if they please or go wheresoever they will and preach the gospel and let the redemtion of Zion be our object, and strive to affect it by sending up all the strength of the Lords house whereever we find them, and I want to enter into the following covenant, that if any more of our brethren are slain or driven from their lands in by the mob that we will give ourselves no rest until we are avenged of our enimies to the uttermost, this covenant was sealed unaminously by a and Amen.— I then observed to the — that I had now completed the organization of the and we had passed through all the necessary ceremonies, that I had given them all the instruction they needed and that they now were at liberty after obtaining their to go forth and build up the kingdom of God, and that it was expedient for me and the to retire, having spent the night previous in waiting upon the Lord in his , and having to attend another dedication on the morrow, or conclude the one commenced on the last sabbath for the benifit of those of my brethren and sisters who could not get into the on the former occasion but that it was expedient for the brethren to tarry all night and worship before the Lord in his [p. 189]