════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — 1 Nephi 11, Book of Mormon, 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1830 (1830-03-26) → 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01):

  1. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:1):
     EARLIER: "For it came to pass that after I had desired to know the things that my father had seen, and believing that the Lord was able to make them known unto ..."
     LATER:   "For it came to pass after I had desired to know the things that my father had seen, and believing that the Lord was able to make them known unto me, a..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:2):
     EARLIER: "And the spirit saith unto me, Behold, what desirest thou?"
     LATER:   "And the spirit said unto me, behold, what desirest thou?"

  3. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:3):
     EARLIER: "And I saith, I desire to behold the things which my father saw."
     LATER:   "And I said, I desire to behold the things which my father saw."

  4. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:4):
     EARLIER: "And the spirit saith unto me, Believest thou that thy father saw the tree of which he hath spoken?"
     LATER:   "And the spirit said unto me, believest thou that thy father saw the tree of which he hath spoken?"

  5. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:6):
     EARLIER: "And when I had spoken these words, the spirit cried with a loud voice, saying: Hosanna to the Lord, the most high God; for he is God over all the eart..."
     LATER:   "And when I had spoken these words, the spirit cried with a loud voice, saying, hosanna to the Lord, the most high God; for he is God over all the eart..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:8):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that the spirit saith unto me, look! and I looked and beheld the tree; and it was like unto the tree which my father had seen; and..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that the spirit said unto me look! and I looked and beheld a tree; and it was like unto the tree which my father had seen; and the..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:9):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that after that I had seen the tree, I said unto the spirit, I behold thou hast shewn unto me the tree which is precious above all..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass after I had seen the tree, I said unto the spirit, I behold, thou hast shewn unto me the tree which is precious above all."

  8. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:10):
     EARLIER: "And he saith unto me, What desirest thou?"
     LATER:   "And he said unto me, what desirest thou?"

  9. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:13):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the great city Jerusalem, and also other cities. And I beheld the city of Nazareth; and in the city of Na..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the great city of Jerusalem, and also other cities. And I beheld the city of Nazareth; and in the city of..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:14):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that I saw the Heavens open; and an angel came down and stood before me; and he saith unto me, Nephi, what beholdest thou?"
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that I saw the heavens open;, and an angel came down and stood before me; and he said unto me, Nephi, what beholdest thou?"

  11. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:15):
     EARLIER: "And I saith unto him, a virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins."
     LATER:   "And I said unto him, a virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins."

  12. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:16):
     EARLIER: "And he saith unto me, Knowest thou condescention of God?"
     LATER:   "And he saith unto me, knowest thou the condescension of God?"

  13. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:18):
     EARLIER: "And he said unto me, Behold, the virgin which thou seest, is the mother of God, after the manner of flesh."
     LATER:   "And he said unto me, behold, the virgin whom thou seest, is the mother of the Son of God, after the manner of the flesh."

  14. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:19):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass I beheld that she was carried away in the spirit; and after that she had been carried away in the spirit for the space of time, th..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that I beheld that she was carried away in the spirit; and after she had been carried away in the spirit for the space of a time, ..."

  15. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:21):
     EARLIER: "And the angel said unto me, behold the Lamb of God, yea, even the Eternal Father! Knowest thou the meaning of the tree which thy father saw?"
     LATER:   "And the angel said unto me, behold the Lamb of God, yea, even the Son of the Eternal Father! Knowest thou the meaning of the tree which thy father saw..."

  16. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:24):
     EARLIER: "And after that he had said those words, he said unto me, look! And I looked, and I beheld the Son of God going forth among the children of men; and I ..."
     LATER:   "And after he had said these words, he said unto me, look! And I looked, and I beheld the Son of God going forth among the children of men; and I saw m..."

  17. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:26):
     EARLIER: "And the angel said unto me again, Look and behold the condescention of God!"
     LATER:   "And the angel said unto me again, look and behold the condescension of God!"

  18. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:27):
     EARLIER: "And I looked and beheld the Redeemer of the world, of which my father had spoken; and I also beheld the prophet, which should prepare the way before h..."
     LATER:   "And I looked and beheld the Redeemer of the world, of whom my father had spoken; and I also beheld the prophet, who should prepare the way before him...."

  19. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:31):
     EARLIER: "And he spake unto me again, saying. look! And I looked, and beheld the Lamb of God going forth among the children of men. And I beheld multitudes of p..."
     LATER:   "And he spake unto me again, saying, look! And I looked, and I beheld the Lamb of God going forth among the children of men. And I beheld multitudes of..."

  20. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 11:32):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying, look! And I looked and beheld the Lamb of God, that he was taken by the people; yea, t..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying, look! And I looked and beheld the Lamb of God, that he was taken by the people; yea, t..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1837 Kirtland edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1837-02-01]

1 Nephi 11:1 For it came to pass after I had desired to know the things that my father had seen, and believing that the Lord was able to make them known unto me, as I sat pondering in mine heart, I was caught away in the spirit of the Lord, yea, into an exceeding high mountain, which I never had before seen, and upon which I never had before sat my foot.

1 Nephi 11:2 And the spirit said unto me, behold, what desirest thou?

1 Nephi 11:3 And I said, I desire to behold the things which my father saw.

1 Nephi 11:4 And the spirit said unto me, believest thou that thy father saw the tree of which he hath spoken?

1 Nephi 11:5 And I said yea, thou knowest that I believe all the words of my father.

1 Nephi 11:6 And when I had spoken these words, the spirit cried with a loud voice, saying, hosanna to the Lord, the most high God; for he is God over all the earth, yea, even above all: And blessed art thou, Nephi, because thou believest in the Son of the most high God; wherefore, thou shalt behold the things which thou hast desired.

1 Nephi 11:7 And behold, this thing shall be given unto thee for a sign, that after thou hast beheld the tree which bore the fruit which thy father tasted, thou shalt also behold a man descending out of heaven, and him shall ye witness; and after ye have witnessed him, ye shall bear record that it is the Son of God.

1 Nephi 11:8 And it came to pass that the spirit said unto me look! and I looked and beheld a tree; and it was like unto the tree which my father had seen; and the beauty thereof was far beyond, yea, exceeding of all beauty; and the whiteness thereof did exceed the whiteness of the driven snow.

1 Nephi 11:9 And it came to pass after I had seen the tree, I said unto the spirit, I behold, thou hast shewn unto me the tree which is precious above all.

1 Nephi 11:10 And he said unto me, what desirest thou?

1 Nephi 11:11 And I said unto him, to know the interpretation thereof; for I spake unto him as a man speaketh; for I beheld that he was in the form of a man; yet, nevertheless, I knew that it was the spirit of the Lord; and he spake unto me as a man speaketh with another.

1 Nephi 11:12 And it came to pass that he said unto me look! and I looked as if to look upon him, and I saw him not; for he had gone from before my presence.

1 Nephi 11:13 And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the great city of Jerusalem, and also other cities. And I beheld the city of Nazareth; and in the city of Nazareth I beheld a virgin, and she was exceedingly fair and white.

1 Nephi 11:14 And it came to pass that I saw the heavens open;, and an angel came down and stood before me; and he said unto me, Nephi, what beholdest thou?

1 Nephi 11:15 And I said unto him, a virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins.

1 Nephi 11:16 And he saith unto me, knowest thou the condescension of God?

1 Nephi 11:17 And I said unto him, I know that he loveth his children; nevertheless, I do not know the meaning of all things.

1 Nephi 11:18 And he said unto me, behold, the virgin whom thou seest, is the mother of the Son of God, after the manner of the flesh.

1 Nephi 11:19 And it came to pass that I beheld that she was carried away in the spirit; and after she had been carried away in the spirit for the space of a time, the angel spake unto me, saying, look!

1 Nephi 11:20 And I looked and beheld the virgin again, bearing a child in her arms.

1 Nephi 11:21 And the angel said unto me, behold the Lamb of God, yea, even the Son of the Eternal Father! Knowest thou the meaning of the tree which thy father saw?

1 Nephi 11:22 And I answered him, saying, yea, it is the love of God, which sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men; wherefore, it is the most desirable above all things.

1 Nephi 11:23 And he spake unto me, saying, yea, and the most joyous to the soul.

1 Nephi 11:24 And after he had said these words, he said unto me, look! And I looked, and I beheld the Son of God going forth among the children of men; and I saw many fall down at his feet and worship him.

1 Nephi 11:25 And it came to pass that I beheld that the rod of iron which my father had seen, was the word of God, which let to the fountain of living waters, or to the tree of life; which waters are a representation of the love of God; and I also beheld that the tree of life was a representation of the love of God.

1 Nephi 11:26 And the angel said unto me again, look and behold the condescension of God!

1 Nephi 11:27 And I looked and beheld the Redeemer of the world, of whom my father had spoken; and I also beheld the prophet, who should prepare the way before him. And the Lamb of God went forth and was baptised of him; and after he was baptised, I beheld the heavens open, and the Holy Ghost come down out of heaven and abode upon him in the form of a dove.

1 Nephi 11:28 And I beheld that he went forth ministering unto the people, in power and great glory; and the multitudes were gathered together to hear him; and I beheld that they cast him out from among them.

1 Nephi 11:29 And I also beheld twelve others following him. And it came to pass that they were carried away in the spirit, from before my face and I saw them not.

1 Nephi 11:30 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying, look! And I looked, and I beheld the heavens open again, and I saw angels descending upon the children of men; and they did minister unto them.

1 Nephi 11:31 And he spake unto me again, saying, look! And I looked, and I beheld the Lamb of God going forth among the children of men. And I beheld multitudes of people who were sick, and who were afflicted with all manner of diseases, and with devils, and unclean spirits; and the angel spake, and shewed all these things unto me. And they were healed by the power of the Lamb of God; and the devils and the unclean spirits were cast out.

1 Nephi 11:32 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying, look! And I looked and beheld the Lamb of God, that he was taken by the people; yea, the Son of the everlasting God was judged of the world; and I saw and bear record.

1 Nephi 11:33 And I, Nephi, saw that he was lifted up upon the cross, and slain for the sins of the world.

1 Nephi 11:34 And after he was slain I saw the multitudes of the earth, that they were gathered together to fight against the apostles of the Lamb; for thus were the twelve called by the angel of the Lord.

1 Nephi 11:35 And the multitude of the earth was gathered together; and I beheld that they were in a large and spacious building, like unto the building which my father saw! And the angel of the Lord spake unto me again, saying, behold the world and the wisdom thereof; yea, behold, the house of Israel hath gathered together, to fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb.

1 Nephi 11:36 And it came to pass that I saw and bear record, that the great and spacious building was the pride of the world; and it fell; and the fall thereof was exceeding great. And the angel of the Lord spake unto me again, saying, thus shall be the destruction of all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, that shall fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
