════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — 3 Nephi 9, Book of Mormon, 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1830 (1830-03-26) → 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01):

  1. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 9:4):
     EARLIER: "And behold, that great city Moroni have I caused to be sunk in the depths of the sea, and the inhabitants to be drowned."
     LATER:   "And behold, that great city Moroni have I caused to be sunk in the depths of the sea, and the inhabitants thereof to be drowned."

  2. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 9:5):
     EARLIER: "And behold, that great city Moronihah have I covered with earth, and the inhabitants thereof, to hide their iniquities and their abominations from bef..."
     LATER:   "And behold, that great city Moronihah have I covered with earth, and the inhabitants thereof, to hide their iniquities and their abominations from bef..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 9:10):
     EARLIER: "And behold, the city of Laman, and the city of Josh, and the city of Gad, and the city of Kishkumen, have I caused to be burned with fire, and the inh..."
     LATER:   "And behold, the city of Laman, and the city of Josh, and the city of Gad, and the city of Kishkumen, have I caused to be burned with fire, and the inh..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 9:11):
     EARLIER: "and because they did cast them all out, that there were none righteous among them, I did send down fire and destroy them, that their wickedness and ab..."
     LATER:   "and because they did cast them all out, that there were none righteous among them, I did send down fire and destroy them, that their wickedness and ab..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 9:13):
     EARLIER: "O all ye that are spared, because ye were more righteous than they! will ye not now return unto me, and repent of your sins, and be converted, that I ..."
     LATER:   "O all ye that are spared, because ye were more righteous than they, will ye not now return unto me, and repent of your sins, and be coverted, that I m..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 9:14):
     EARLIER: "Yea, verily I say unto you, if ye will come unto me, ye shall have eternal life. Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will..."
     LATER:   "Yea, verily I say unto you, if ye will come unto me, ye shall have eternal life. Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 9:15):
     EARLIER: "Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I created the Heavens and the earth, and all things that in them is. I was with the Father from the beginni..."
     LATER:   "Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. I was with the Father from the beginn..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (3 Nephi 9:19):
     EARLIER: "And ye shall offer up unto me the shedding of blood; yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away, for I will accept none of your ..."
     LATER:   "And ye shall offer up unto me no more the shedding of blood; yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away, for I will accept none ..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1837 Kirtland edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1837-02-01]

3 Nephi 9:1 And it came to pass that there was a voice heard among all the inhabitants of the earth upon all the face of this land, crying,

3 Nephi 9:2 wo, wo, wo unto this people; wo unto the inhabitants of the whole earth, except they shall repent, for the devil laugheth, and his angels rejoice, because of the slain of the fair sons and daughters of my people; and it is because of their iniquity and abominations that they are fallen.

3 Nephi 9:3 Behold, that great city Zarahemla have I burned with fire, and the inhabitants thereof.

3 Nephi 9:4 And behold, that great city Moroni have I caused to be sunk in the depths of the sea, and the inhabitants thereof to be drowned.

3 Nephi 9:5 And behold, that great city Moronihah have I covered with earth, and the inhabitants thereof, to hide their iniquities and their abominations from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and the saints shall not come any more unto me against them.

3 Nephi 9:6 And behold, the city of Gilgal have I caused to be sunk, and the inhabitants thereof to be buried up in the depths of the earth;

3 Nephi 9:7 yea, and the city Onihah, and the inhabitants thereof, and the city of Mocum, and the inhabitants thereof, and the city of Jerusalem, and the inhabitants thereof, and waters have I caused to come up in the stead thereof, to hide their wickedness and abominations from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and the saints shall not come up any more unto me against them.

3 Nephi 9:8 And behold, the city of Gadiandi, and the city of Gadiomnah, and the city of Jacob, and the city of Gimgimno, all these have I caused to be sunk, and made hills and valleys in the places thereof, and the inhabitants thereof have I buried up in the depths of the earth, to hide their wickedness and abominations from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and the saints should not come up any more unto me against them.

3 Nephi 9:9 And behold, that great city Jacobugath, which was inhabited by the people of the king of Jacob, have I caused to be burned with fire, because of their sins and their wickedness, which was above all the wickedness of the whole earth, because of their secret murders and combinations; for it was they that did destroy the peace of my people and the government of the land; therefore I did cause them to be burned, to destroy them from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and the saints should not come up unto me any more against them.

3 Nephi 9:10 And behold, the city of Laman, and the city of Josh, and the city of Gad, and the city of Kishkumen, have I caused to be burned with fire, and the inhabitants thereof, because of their wickedness in casting out the prophets, and stoning those whom I did send to declare unto them concerning their wickedness and their abominations;

3 Nephi 9:11 and because they did cast them all out, that there were none righteous among them, I did send down fire and destroy them, that their wickedness and abominations might be hid from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and the saints whom I sent among them, might not cry unto me from the ground against them;

3 Nephi 9:12 and many great destructions have I caused to come upon this land, and upon this people, because of their wickedness and their abominations.

3 Nephi 9:13 O all ye that are spared, because ye were more righteous than they, will ye not now return unto me, and repent of your sins, and be coverted, that I may heal you?

3 Nephi 9:14 Yea, verily I say unto you, if ye will come unto me, ye shall have eternal life. Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive; and blessed are those who come unto me.

3 Nephi 9:15 Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. I was with the Father from the beginning. I am in the Father, and the Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name.

3 Nephi 9:16 I came unto my own, and my own received me not. And the scriptures, concerning my coming, are fulfilled.

3 Nephi 9:17 And as many as have received me, to them have I given to become the Sons of God; and even so will I to as many as shall believe on my name, for behold, by me redemption cometh, and in me is the law of Moses fulfilled.

3 Nephi 9:18 I am the light and the life of the world. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.

3 Nephi 9:19 And ye shall offer up unto me no more the shedding of blood; yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away, for I will accept none of your sacrifices and your burnt offerings;

3 Nephi 9:20 and ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me a broken heart and a contrite spirit. And whoso cometh unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, him will I baptize with fire and with the Holy Ghost, even as the Lamanites, because of their faith in me, at the time of their conversion, were baptized with fire and with the Holy Ghost, and they knew it not.

3 Nephi 9:21 Behold, I have come unto the world to bring redemption unto the world, to save the world from sin:

3 Nephi 9:22 therefore whoso repenteth and cometh unto me as a little child, him will I receive; for of such is the kingdom of God. Behold, for such I have laid down my life, and have taken it up again; therefore repent, and come unto me ye ends of the earth, and be saved.
