════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Mosiah 23, Book of Mormon, 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1830 (1830-03-26) → 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:3):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that they fled eight days' journey into the wilderness."
     LATER:   "And they fled eight days' journey into the wilderness."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:5):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that they pitched their tents, and began to till the ground, and began to build buildings, &c; yea, they were industrious, and did..."
     LATER:   "And they pitched their tents, and began to till the ground, and began to build buildings, &c; yea, they were industrious, and did labor exceedingly."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:6):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that the people were desirous that Alma should be their king, for he was beloved by his people."
     LATER:   "And the people were desirous that Alma should be their king, for he was beloved by his people."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:7):
     EARLIER: "But he saith unto them, Behold, it is not expedient that we should have a king; for thus saith the Lord: Ye shall not esteem one flesh above another; ..."
     LATER:   "But he said unto them, behold, it is not expedient that we should have a king; for thus saith the Lord: Ye shall not esteem one flesh above another, o..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:10):
     EARLIER: "nevertheless, after much tribulation, the Lord did hear my cries, and did answer my prayers, and hath made me an instrument in his hands, in bringing ..."
     LATER:   "nevertheless, after much tribulation, the Lord did hear my cries, and did answer my prayers, and has made me an instrument in his hands, in bringing s..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:12):
     EARLIER: "And now I say unto you, As ye have been oppressed by king Noah, and have been in bondage to him and his priests, and have been brought into iniquity b..."
     LATER:   "And now I say unto you, ye have been oppressed by king Noah, and have been in bondage to him and his priests, and have been brought into iniquity by t..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:13):
     EARLIER: "And now as ye have been delivered, by the power of God, out of these bonds; yea, even out of the hands of king Noah and his people, and also from the ..."
     LATER:   "And now as ye have been delivered, by the power of God, out of these bonds; yea, even out of the hands of king Noah and his people, and also from the ..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:14):
     EARLIER: "and also trusting no one to be your teachers nor your ministers, except he be a man of God, walking in his ways and keeping his commandments."
     LATER:   "and also trusting no one to be your teacher nor your minister, except he be a man of God, walking in his ways and keeping his commandments."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:16):
     EARLIER: "And now Alma was their high priest, he being a founder of their Church."
     LATER:   "And now Alma was their high priest, he being the founder of their church."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:17):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that none received authority to preach or to teach, except it were by him from God. Therefore he consecrated all their priests, an..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that none received authority to preach or to teach, except it were by him from God. Therefore he consecrated all their priests, an..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:24):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that he did deliver them, and he did shew forth his mighty power unto them, and great was their rejoicings."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that he did deliver them, and he did shew forth his mighty power unto them, and great were their rejoicings."

  12. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:26):
     EARLIER: "Now it came to pass that the brethren of Alma fled from the fields, and gathered themselves together into the city of Helam; and they were much fright..."
     LATER:   "Now it came to pass that the brethren of Alma fled from their fields, and gathered themselves together into the city of Helam; and they were much frig..."

  13. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:31):
     EARLIER: "And behold, they had found those priests of king Noah, in a place called Amulon; and they began to possess the land of Amulon, and had began to till t..."
     LATER:   "And behold, they had found those priests of king Noah, in a place which they called Amulon; and they had began to possess the land of Amulon, and had ..."

  14. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:33):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that Amulon did plead with the Lamanites; and he also sent forth their wives, which was the daughters of the Lamanites, to plead w..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that Amulon did plead with the Lamanites; and he also sent forth their wives, who were the daughters of the Lamanites, to plead wi..."

  15. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:34):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that the Lamanites had compassion on Amulon and his brethren, and did not destroy them, because of their wives."
     LATER:   "And the Lamanites had compassion on Amulon and his brethren, and did not destroy them, because of their wives."

  16. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:35):
     EARLIER: "And Amulon and his brethren did join the Lamanites, and they were travelling in the wilderness in search of the land of Nephi, when they discovered th..."
     LATER:   "And Amulon and his brethren did join the Lamanites, and they were traveling in the wilderness in search of the land of Nephi, when they discovered the..."

  17. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:36):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that the Lamanites promised unto Alma and his brethren, that if they shewed them the way which led to the land of Nephi, that they..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that the Lamanites promised unto Alma and his brethren, that if they would shew them the way which led to the land of Nephi, that ..."

  18. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:37):
     EARLIER: "But it came to pass that after Alma had shewn them the way that led to the land of Nephi, the Lamanites would not keep their promise; but they set gua..."
     LATER:   "But after Alma had shewn them the way that led to the land of Nephi, the Lamanites would not keep their promise; but they set guards round about the l..."

  19. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:38):
     EARLIER: "And the remainder of them went to the land of Nephi, and a part of them returned to the land of Helam, and also brought with them the wives and the ch..."
     LATER:   "And the remainder of them went to the land of Nephi; and a part of them returned to the land of Helam, and also brought with them the wives and the ch..."

  20. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 23:39):
     EARLIER: "And the king of the Lamanites had granted unto Amulon that he should be a king and a ruler over his people, which was in the land of Helam; neverthele..."
     LATER:   "And the king of the Lamanites had granted unto Amulon that he should be a king and a ruler over his people, who were in the land of Helam; nevertheles..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1837 Kirtland edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1837-02-01]

Mosiah 23:1 Now Alma, having been warned of the Lord that the armies of king Noah would come upon them, and had made it known to his people, therefore they gathered together their flocks, and took of their grain, and departed into the wilderness before the armies of king Noah.

Mosiah 23:2 And the Lord did strengthen them, that the people of king Noah could not overtake them, to destroy them.

Mosiah 23:3 And they fled eight days' journey into the wilderness.

Mosiah 23:4 And they came to a land, yea, even a very beautiful and pleasant land; a land of pure water.

Mosiah 23:5 And they pitched their tents, and began to till the ground, and began to build buildings, &c; yea, they were industrious, and did labor exceedingly.

Mosiah 23:6 And the people were desirous that Alma should be their king, for he was beloved by his people.

Mosiah 23:7 But he said unto them, behold, it is not expedient that we should have a king; for thus saith the Lord: Ye shall not esteem one flesh above another, or one man shall not think himself above another; therefore I say unto you, it is not expedient that ye should have a king.

Mosiah 23:8 Nevertheless, if it were possible that ye could always have just men to be your kings, it would be well for you to have a king.

Mosiah 23:9 But remember the iniquity of king Noah and his priests: and I myself was caught in a snare, and did many things which was abominable in the sight of the Lord, which caused me sore repentance;

Mosiah 23:10 nevertheless, after much tribulation, the Lord did hear my cries, and did answer my prayers, and has made me an instrument in his hands, in bringing so many of you to a knowledge of his truth.

Mosiah 23:11 Nevertheless, in this I do not glory, for I am unworthy to glory of myself.

Mosiah 23:12 And now I say unto you, ye have been oppressed by king Noah, and have been in bondage to him and his priests, and have been brought into iniquity by them; therefore ye were bound with the bands of iniquity.

Mosiah 23:13 And now as ye have been delivered, by the power of God, out of these bonds; yea, even out of the hands of king Noah and his people, and also from the bonds of iniquity, even so I desire that ye should stand fast in this liberty wherewith ye have been made free, and that ye trust no man to be a king over you;

Mosiah 23:14 and also trusting no one to be your teacher nor your minister, except he be a man of God, walking in his ways and keeping his commandments.

Mosiah 23:15 Thus did Alma teach his people, that every man should love his neighbor as himself; that there should be no contention among them.

Mosiah 23:16 And now Alma was their high priest, he being the founder of their church.

Mosiah 23:17 And it came to pass that none received authority to preach or to teach, except it were by him from God. Therefore he consecrated all their priests, and all their teachers, and none were consecrated except they were just men.

Mosiah 23:18 Therefore they did watch over their people, and did nourish them with things pertaining to righteousness.

Mosiah 23:19 And it came to pass that they began to prosper exceedingly in the land; and they called the land Helam.

Mosiah 23:20 And it came to pass that they did multiply and prosper exceedingly in the land of Helam; and they built a city, which they called the city of Helam.

Mosiah 23:21 Nevertheless the Lord seeth fit to chasten his people; yea, he trieth their patience and their faith.

Mosiah 23:22 Nevertheless, whosoever puteth his trust in him, the same shall be lifted up at the last day. Yea, and thus it was with this people.

Mosiah 23:23 For behold, I will shew unto you that they were brought into bondage, and none could deliver them but the Lord their God; yea, even the God of Abraham, and Isaac, and of Jacob.

Mosiah 23:24 And it came to pass that he did deliver them, and he did shew forth his mighty power unto them, and great were their rejoicings.

Mosiah 23:25 For behold, it came to pass that while they were in the land of Helam, yea, in the city of Helam, while tilling the land round about, behold an army of the Lamanites were in the borders of the land.

Mosiah 23:26 Now it came to pass that the brethren of Alma fled from their fields, and gathered themselves together into the city of Helam; and they were much frightened because of the appearance of the Lamanites.

Mosiah 23:27 But Alma went forth and stood among them, and exhorted them that they should not be frightened, but they should remember the Lord their God, and he would deliver them;

Mosiah 23:28 therefore they hushed their fears, and began to cry unto the Lord, that he would soften the hearts of the Lamanites, that they would spare them, and their wives, and their children.

Mosiah 23:29 And it came to pass that the Lord did soften the hearts of the Lamanites. And Alma and his brethren went forth and delivered themselves up into their hands; and the Lamanites took possession of the land of Helam.

Mosiah 23:30 Now the armies of the Lamanites which had followed after the people of king Limhi, had been lost in the wilderness for many days.

Mosiah 23:31 And behold, they had found those priests of king Noah, in a place which they called Amulon; and they had began to possess the land of Amulon, and had began to till the ground.

Mosiah 23:32 Now the name of the leader of those priests was Amulon.

Mosiah 23:33 And it came to pass that Amulon did plead with the Lamanites; and he also sent forth their wives, who were the daughters of the Lamanites, to plead with their brethren, that they should not destroy their husbands.

Mosiah 23:34 And the Lamanites had compassion on Amulon and his brethren, and did not destroy them, because of their wives.

Mosiah 23:35 And Amulon and his brethren did join the Lamanites, and they were traveling in the wilderness in search of the land of Nephi, when they discovered the land of Helam, which was possessed by Alma and his brethren.

Mosiah 23:36 And it came to pass that the Lamanites promised unto Alma and his brethren, that if they would shew them the way which led to the land of Nephi, that they would grant unto them their lives and their liberty.

Mosiah 23:37 But after Alma had shewn them the way that led to the land of Nephi, the Lamanites would not keep their promise; but they set guards round about the land of Helam, over Alma and his brethren.

Mosiah 23:38 And the remainder of them went to the land of Nephi; and a part of them returned to the land of Helam, and also brought with them the wives and the children of the guards who had been left in the land.

Mosiah 23:39 And the king of the Lamanites had granted unto Amulon that he should be a king and a ruler over his people, who were in the land of Helam; nevertheless he should have no power to do any thing contrary to the will of the king of the Lamanites.
