════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — 1 Nephi 10, Book of Mormon, 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1830 (1830-03-26) → 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01):

  1. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:1):
     EARLIER: "And now I, Nephi, proceed to give an account upon these plates, of my proceedings, and my reign and ministry; therefore, to proceed with mine account...."
     LATER:   "And now I, Nephi, proceed to give an account upon these plates, of my proceedings, and my reign and ministry; wherefore, to proceed with mine account,..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:2):
     EARLIER: "For behold, it came to pass that after my father had made an end of speaking the words of his dream, and also exhorting them to all diligence, he spak..."
     LATER:   "For behold, it came to pass that after my father had made an end of speaking the words of his dream, and also of exhorting them to all dilligence, he ..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:3):
     EARLIER: "How that after they were destroyed, yea, even that great city Jerusalem; and that many were carried away captive into Babylon; that according to the o..."
     LATER:   "that after they should be destroyed, even that great city Jerusalem, and many be carried away captive into Babylon, according to the own due time of t..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:4):
     EARLIER: "Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left jerusalem, a Prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews; yea, even a Messiah; or..."
     LATER:   ". Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the lord God raise up among the Jews; even a Messiah; or, i..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:5):
     EARLIER: "And he also spake concerning the prophets: How great a number had testified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of which he had spoken, or this ..."
     LATER:   "And he also spake concerning the prophets, how great a number had testified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of whom he had spoken, or this R..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:6):
     EARLIER: "Wherefore, all mankind was in a lost and in a fallen state; and ever would be, save they should rely on this Redeemer."
     LATER:   "Wherefore, all mankind were in a lost and in a fallen state, and ever would be, save they should rely on this Redeemer."

  7. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:7):
     EARLIER: "And he spake also, concerning a prophet, which should come before the Messiah, to prepare the way of the Lord;"
     LATER:   "And he spake also, concerning a prophet, who should come before the Messiah, to prepare the way of the Lord;"

  8. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:9):
     EARLIER: "And my father saith that he should baptise in Bethabara, beyond Jordan; and he also spake, that he should baptise with water. yea, even that he should..."
     LATER:   "And my father said he should baptise in Bethabary, beyond Jordan; and he also said he should baptise with water; even that he should baptise the Messi..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:11):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that after my father had spoken these words, he spake unto my brethren concerning the Gospel, which should be preached among the J..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass after my father had spoken these words, he spake unto my brethren concerning the gospel which should be preached among the Jews; a..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:16):
     EARLIER: "And all these things of which I have spoken, was done, as my father dwelt in a tent, in the valley of Lemuel."
     LATER:   "And all these things of which I have spoken, were done, as my father dwelt in a tent, in the valley of Lemuel."

  11. PHRASE ADDITION (1 Nephi 10:17):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, having heard all the words of my father, concerning the things which he saw in a vision; and also the things ..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass after I, Nephi, having heard all the words of my father, concerning the things which he saw in a vision; and also the things which..."

  12. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:19):
     EARLIER: "for he that diligently seeketh, shall find; and the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the Holy Ghost, as well in these tim..."
     LATER:   "for he that diligently seeketh, shall find; and the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the Holy Ghost, as well in these tim..."

  13. WORD CHANGE (1 Nephi 10:21):
     EARLIER: "Wherefore, if ye have sought to do wickedly before the judgment seat of God; and no unclean thing can dwell with God; wherefore, ye must be cast off f..."
     LATER:   "Wherefore, if ye have sought to do wickedly in the days of your probation, then ye are found unclean before the judgment seat of God; and no unclean t..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1837 Kirtland edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1837-02-01]

1 Nephi 10:1 And now I, Nephi, proceed to give an account upon these plates, of my proceedings, and my reign and ministry; wherefore, to proceed with mine account, I must speak somewhat of the things of my father, and also of my brethren.

1 Nephi 10:2 For behold, it came to pass that after my father had made an end of speaking the words of his dream, and also of exhorting them to all dilligence, he spake unto them concerning the Jews,

1 Nephi 10:3 that after they should be destroyed, even that great city Jerusalem, and many be carried away captive into Babylon, according to the own due time of the Lord, they should return again; yea, even be brought back out of captivity; and after they should be brought back out of captivity they should possess again the land of their inheritance

1 Nephi 10:4 . Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the lord God raise up among the Jews; even a Messiah; or, in other words, a Savior of the world.

1 Nephi 10:5 And he also spake concerning the prophets, how great a number had testified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of whom he had spoken, or this Redeemer of the world.

1 Nephi 10:6 Wherefore, all mankind were in a lost and in a fallen state, and ever would be, save they should rely on this Redeemer.

1 Nephi 10:7 And he spake also, concerning a prophet, who should come before the Messiah, to prepare the way of the Lord;

1 Nephi 10:8 yea, even he should go forth and cry in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight; for there standeth one among you whom ye know not; and he is mightier than I, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose. And much spake my father concerning this thing.

1 Nephi 10:9 And my father said he should baptise in Bethabary, beyond Jordan; and he also said he should baptise with water; even that he should baptise the Messiah with water.

1 Nephi 10:10 And after he had baptised the Messiah with water, he should behold and bear record, that he had baptised the Lamb of God, which should take away the sins of the world.

1 Nephi 10:11 And it came to pass after my father had spoken these words, he spake unto my brethren concerning the gospel which should be preached among the Jews; and also concerning the dwindling of the Jews in unbelief. And after they had slain the Messiah who should come, and after he had been slain, he should rise from the dead, and should make himself manifest, by the Holy Ghost, unto the Gentiles.

1 Nephi 10:12 Yea, even my father spake much concerning the Gentiles, and also concerning the house of Israel, that they should be compared like unto an olive tree, whose branches should be broken off, and should be scattered upon all the face of the earth.

1 Nephi 10:13 Wherefore, he said it must needs be that we should be led with one accord, into the land of promise unto the fulfilling of the word of the Lord, that we should be scattered upon all the face of the earth.

1 Nephi 10:14 And after that the house of Israel should be scattered, they should be gathered together again; or, in fine, after the Gentiles had received the fulness of the gospel, the natural branches of the olive tree, or the remnants of the house of Israel, should be grafted in, or come to the knowledge of the true Messiah, their Lord and their Redeemer.

1 Nephi 10:15 And after this manner of language did my father prophesy and speak unto my brethren; and also many more things, which I do not write in this book; for I have written as many of them as were expedient for me in mine other book.

1 Nephi 10:16 And all these things of which I have spoken, were done, as my father dwelt in a tent, in the valley of Lemuel.

1 Nephi 10:17 And it came to pass after I, Nephi, having heard all the words of my father, concerning the things which he saw in a vision; and also the things which he spake by the power of the Holy Ghost; which power he received by faith on the Son of God; and the Son of God was the Messiah, who should come. I, Nephi, was desirous also, that I might see, and hear, and know of these things, by the power of the Holy Ghost, which is the gift of God unto all those who diligently seek him, as well in times of old as in the time that he should manifest himself unto the children of men;

1 Nephi 10:18 for he is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever; and the way is prepared from the foundation of the world, if it so be that they repent and come unto him;

1 Nephi 10:19 for he that diligently seeketh, shall find; and the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the Holy Ghost, as well in these times as in times of old; and as well in times of old as in times to come; wherefore, the course of the Lord is one eternal round.

1 Nephi 10:20 Therefore, remember, O man, for all thy doings, thou shalt be brought into judgment.

1 Nephi 10:21 Wherefore, if ye have sought to do wickedly in the days of your probation, then ye are found unclean before the judgment seat of God; and no unclean thing can dwell with God; wherefore, ye must be cast off forever.

1 Nephi 10:22 And the Holy Ghost giveth authority that I should speak these things and deny them not.
