Discourse, 6 April 1837

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-6-april-1837/1
Date: April 6, 1837
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, [, Geauga Co., OH], 6 Apr. 1837. Featured version published in “Anniversary of the Church of Latter Day Saints,” Latter Day Saints’ Messenger and Advocate, Apr. 1837, 3:487–488. For more complete source information, see the source note for Letter to Oliver Cowdery, Dec. 1834.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 6 April 1837, the seventh anniversary of the organization of the , the , , and other priesthood holders gathered in the in , Ohio, for a . This gathering occurred just over a year after the solemn assembly that followed the dedication of the House of the Lord in March 1836.
On the morning of the 1837 solemn assembly, each priesthood quorum met in the to perform the of and to prepare “to receive instruction from the Presidents of the church.” The First Presidency met separately with the Quorum of the in the upper room of the temple to confirm and bless new members of the Seventy, who had been anointed prior to the solemn assembly. They also met to address questions of authority and to correct inconsistencies in who had been called as quorum presidents. Previously, some presidents of the Seventy had been called from among the , but according to minutes of the meeting, “It was decided by President Joseph Smith, that the seventies were not High priests as they had been previously taught.” Reminiscent accounts by and noted that there was tension between the quorums over which had authority over the other. These concerns resulted in the removal and replacement of some of the presidents of the Seventy. It appeared that six of the seven presidents of the Seventy (the exception being Joseph Young) had already been as high priests when they were appointed presidents of the Seventy and had not been chosen from the Quorum of the Seventy as set out in the 1835 “Instruction on Priesthood.” noted that the practice of appointing high priests as leaders of the Seventy “was declared to be wrong, and not according to the order of heaven.” To resolve the matter, the presidents who were thought to have been ordained high priests were removed as presidents of the Seventy and new men were appointed from the Quorum of the Seventy to serve as quorum presidents. The five former presidents who were at the meeting, as well as other seventies who had been ordained high priests, were then asked to join the high priests quorum.
After all the priesthood quorums gathered for instruction, they were addressed by members of the church presidency—JS, , , and . JS’s discourse, featured here, is extracted from ’s synopsis of the proceedings of the solemn assembly. In his address, JS discussed the duties and roles of each of the priesthood quorums and explained the “grades of the different quorums” without clarifying which quorum had the higher authority.
After JS finished speaking on the topic of priesthood, he spoke on the temporal affairs of the church. He informed the assembled priesthood holders that the city of must be developed and that the Saints should gather there and purchase land intended for them. and also spoke in the solemn assembly regarding the church’s financial situation. Hyrum chastised members who were giving new arrivals unauthorized advice about purchasing land; their actions contradicted guidelines established by church leaders the previous December to govern Saints wanting to move to Kirtland. He also rebuked those members of the church who were taking the money of newly arrived Saints rather than directing them to purchase land from church leaders, who had gone into considerable debt to acquire property for church settlement. Hyrum also told members to support the for the benefit of the church and its members. In his remarks, Rigdon named the three most significant debts of the church, identifying $6,000 related to the Saints being driven from , Missouri; $13,000 for building the in Kirtland; and an unspecified amount for land purchases in Kirtland. Building on JS’s earlier comments, Rigdon emphasized the principle of gathering and instructed the to tell church members that there was “a place for them” in Kirtland and that “it is the will of God that they should come.”

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Joseph Smith jr. rose and spoke on the subject of the . The , he said was no other then the priesthood of the Son of God. There are certain which belong to the priesthood, and certain results flow from it.
The , or presidency are over the , and revelations of the mind and will of God to the church are to come through the presidency. This is the order of heaven and the power and privilege of this priesthood. It is also the privilege of any officer in this church, to obtain revelations so far as relates to his particular calling or duty in the church. All are bound by the principles of virtue and happiness, but one great privilege of this priesthood is to obtain revelations, as before observed, of the mind and will of God. It is also the privilege of the Melchisedec priesthood, to reprove, rebuke and admonish, as well as to receive revelations.
He here remarked something concerning the will of God, and said, that what God commanded, the one half of the church would condemn.— A , is a member of the same Melchisedec priesthood, with the presidency, but not of the same power or authority in the church. The are also members of the same priesthood, are a sort of travelling , or priesthood, and may preside over a church or churches until a high priest can be had. The seventies are to be taken from the quorum of and are not to be high priests. They are subject to the direction and dictation of the , who have the of the ministry. All are to preach the gospel, by the power and influence of the Holy Ghost, and no man, said he, can preach the gospel without the Holy Ghost.
The was a high priest, and necessarily so, because he is to preside over that particular branch of the church affairs that are denominated the , and because we have no direct lineal descendent of Aaron to whom it would of right belong. He remarked that this was the same, or a branch of the same priesthood; and illustrated his position by the figure of the human body, which has dfferent members, which have different offices to perform: all are necessary in their place, and the body is not complete without all the members. From a view of the requirements of the servants of God to preach the gospel, he remarked that few were qualified even to be , and if a priest understood his duty, his calling and ministry and preached by the Holy Ghost, his enjoyment is as great as if he were one of the presidency; and his services are necessary in the body, as are also those of and . Therefore in viewing the church as whole, we may strictly denominate it one priesthood.
He remarked that he rebuked and admonished his brethren frequently, and that because he loved them; not because he wished to incur their displeasure or mar their happiness.
Such a course of conduct was not calculated to gain the good will of all, but rather the ill will of many, and thereby the situation in which he stood was an important one. So you see, brethren the higher the authority, the greater the difficulty of the station. But these rebukes and admonitions became nccssary from the perverseness of brethren, for their temporal as well as spiritual welfare. They actually constituted a part of the duties of his station and calling.
Others had other duties to perform that were important and far less enviable, and might be just as good, like the feet or hands in their relation to the human body, neither could claim priority, or say to the other I have no need of you. After all that has been said the greatest duty and the most important is, to preach the gospel.
He then alluded to the temporal affairs of the church in this place, stating the causes of the embarrassments of a pecuniary nature that were now pressing upon the heads of the church. He observed they began poor, were needy, destitute, and were truly afflicted by their enemies; yet the Lord commanded them to go forth and preach the [p. 487]

gospel, to sacirfice their time, their talents, their good name and jeopardize their lives, and in addition to this, they were to build a , and prepare for the of the saints.
Thus it was easy to see this must involve them. They had no temporal means in the beginning commensurate with such an undertaking, but this work must be done, this place had to be built up. He further remarked that it must yet be built up, that more houses must be built. He observed that large contracts had been entered into for land on all sides where our enemies had signed away their right. We are indebted to them to be sure, but our brethren abroad have only to come with their money, take these eontracts [contracts], relieve their brethren of the pecuniary embarrassments under which they now labor, and procure for themselves a peaceable place of rest among us. He then closed at about 4 P. M. by uttering a prophesy saying this place must be built up, and would be built up, and that every brother that would take hold and help secure and discharge those contracts that had been made, should be rich. [p. 488]