════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Mosiah 28, Book of Mormon, 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1830 (1830-03-26) → 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 28:6):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that king Mosiah went and inquired of the Lord, if he should let his sons go up among the Lamanites to preach the word."
     LATER:   "And king Mosiah went and inquired of the Lord, if he should let his sons go up among the Lamanites to preach the word."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 28:10):
     EARLIER: "Now king Mosiah had no one to confer the kingdom upon, for there was not any of his sons which would accept of the kingdom;"
     LATER:   "Now king Mosiah had no one to confer the kingdom upon, for there was not any of his sons who would accept of the kingdom;"

  3. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 28:11):
     EARLIER: "therefore he took the records which were engraven upon the plates of brass, and also the plates of Nephi, and all the things which he had kept and pre..."
     LATER:   "therefore he took the records which were engraven on the plates of brass, and also the plates of Nephi, and all the things which he had kept and prese..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 28:12):
     EARLIER: "and this he done, because of the great anxiety of his people, for they were desirous beyond measure, to know concerning those people which had been de..."
     LATER:   "and this he did, because of the great anxiety of his people, for they were desirous beyond measure, to know concerning those people who had been destr..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 28:13):
     EARLIER: "And now he translated them by the means of those two stones which was fastened into the rims of a bow."
     LATER:   "And now he translated them by the means of those two stones which were fastened into the two rims of a bow."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 28:15):
     EARLIER: "and they have been kept and preserved by the hand of the Lord, that he should discover to every creature which should possess the land, the iniquities..."
     LATER:   "and they have been kept and preserved by the hand of the Lord, that he should discover to every creature who should possess the land, the iniquities a..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 28:17):
     EARLIER: "Now after Mosiah had finished translating these records, behold, it gave an account of the people which was destroyed, from the time they were destroy..."
     LATER:   "Now after Mosiah had finished translating these records, behold, it gave an account of the people who were destroyed, from the time that they were des..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 28:19):
     EARLIER: "And this account shall be written hereafter: for behold, it is expedient that all people should know these things which are written in this account."
     LATER:   "And this account shall be written hereafter: for behold, it is expedient that all people should know the things which are written in this account."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 28:20):
     EARLIER: "And now I said unto you, that after king Mosiah had done these things, he took the plates of brass, and all the things which he had kept, and conferre..."
     LATER:   "And now, as I said unto you, that after king Mosiah had done these things, he took the plates of brass, and all the things which he had kept, and conf..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1837 Kirtland edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1837-02-01]

Mosiah 28:1 Now it came to pass that after the sons of Mosiah had done all these things, they took a small number with them, and returned to their father, the king, and desired of him that he would grant unto them, that they might, with these whom they had selected, go up to the land of Nephi, that they might preach the things which they had heard, and that they might impart the word of God to their brethren, the Lamanites,

Mosiah 28:2 that perhaps they might bring them to the knowledge of the Lord their God, and convince them of the iniquity of their fathers; and that perhaps they might cure them of their hatred towards the Nephites, that they might also be brought to rejoice in the Lord their God, that they might become friendly to one another, and that there should be no more contentions in all the land which the Lord their God hath given them.

Mosiah 28:3 Now they were desirous that salvation should be declared to every creature, for they could not bear that any human soul should perish; yea, even the very thoughts that any soul should endure endless torment, did cause them to quake and tremble.

Mosiah 28:4 And thus did the spirit of the Lord work upon them, for they were the very vilest of sinners. And the Lord saw fit in his infinite mercy to spare them; nevertheless they suffered much anguish of soul, because of their iniquities; and suffering much, fearing that they should be cast off forever.

Mosiah 28:5 And it came to pass that they did plead with their father many days, that they might go up to the land of Nephi.

Mosiah 28:6 And king Mosiah went and inquired of the Lord, if he should let his sons go up among the Lamanites to preach the word.

Mosiah 28:7 And the Lord said unto Mosiah, let them go up, for many shall believe on their words, and they shall have eternal life; and I will deliver thy sons out of the hands of the Lamanites.

Mosiah 28:8 And it came to pass that Mosiah granted that they might go, and do according to their request;

Mosiah 28:9 and they took their journey into the wilderness, to go up to preach the word among the Lamanites: and I shall give an account of their proceedings hereafter.

Mosiah 28:10 Now king Mosiah had no one to confer the kingdom upon, for there was not any of his sons who would accept of the kingdom;

Mosiah 28:11 therefore he took the records which were engraven on the plates of brass, and also the plates of Nephi, and all the things which he had kept and preserved, according to the commandments of God, after having translated and caused to be written the records which were on the plates of gold, which had been found by the people of Limhi, which were delivered to him by the hand of Limhi:

Mosiah 28:12 and this he did, because of the great anxiety of his people, for they were desirous beyond measure, to know concerning those people who had been destroyed.

Mosiah 28:13 And now he translated them by the means of those two stones which were fastened into the two rims of a bow.

Mosiah 28:14 Now these things was prepared from the beginning, and was handed down from generation to generation, for the purpose of interpreting languages;

Mosiah 28:15 and they have been kept and preserved by the hand of the Lord, that he should discover to every creature who should possess the land, the iniquities and abominations of his people:

Mosiah 28:16 and whosoever has these things, is called seer, after the manner of old times.

Mosiah 28:17 Now after Mosiah had finished translating these records, behold, it gave an account of the people who were destroyed, from the time that they were destroyed, back to the building of the great tower, at the time the Lord confounded the langauge of the people; and they were scattered abroad upon the face of all the earth, yea, and even from that time until the creation of Adam.

Mosiah 28:18 Now this account did cause the people of Mosiah to mourn exceedingly; yea, they were filled with sorrow: nevertheless it gave them much knowledge, in the which they did rejoice.

Mosiah 28:19 And this account shall be written hereafter: for behold, it is expedient that all people should know the things which are written in this account.

Mosiah 28:20 And now, as I said unto you, that after king Mosiah had done these things, he took the plates of brass, and all the things which he had kept, and conferred them upon Alma, who was the son of Alma; yea, all the records, and also the interpreters, and conferred them upon him, and commanded him that he should keep and preserve them, and also keep a record of the people, handing them down from one generation to another, even as they had been handed down from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem.
