════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Alma 45, Book of Mormon, 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1830 (1830-03-26) → 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:1):
     EARLIER: "Behold, now it came to pass that the people of Nephi were exceedingly rejoiced, because the Lord God again delivered them out of the hands of their en..."
     LATER:   "Behold, now it came to pass that the people of Nephi were exceedingly rejoiced, because the Lord had again delivered them out of the hands of their en..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:2):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass in the nineteeneth year of the reign of the Judges over the people of Nephi, that Alma came unto his son Helaman, and saith unto h..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass in the nineteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, that Alma came unto his son Helaman, and said unto him..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:3):
     EARLIER: "And Helaman saith unto him, Yea, I believe."
     LATER:   "And Helaman said unto him, yea, I believe."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:4):
     EARLIER: "--And Alma saith again, Believest thou in Jesus Christ, which shall come?"
     LATER:   "And Alma said again, believest thou in Jesus Christ, who shall come?"

  5. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:5):
     EARLIER: "And he saith, Yea, I believe all the words which thou hast spoken."
     LATER:   "And he said, yea, I believe all the words which thou hast spoken."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:6):
     EARLIER: "And Alma saith unto him again, Will ye keep my commandments?"
     LATER:   "And Alma said unto him again, will ye keep my commandments?"

  7. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:8):
     EARLIER: "Then Alma saith unto him, Blessed art thou; and the Lord shall prosper thee in this land."
     LATER:   "Then Alma said unto him, blessed art thou; and the Lord shall prosper thee in this land."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:13):
     EARLIER: "and when that great day cometh, behold, the time very soon cometh that those which are now, or the seed of those which are now numbered among the peop..."
     LATER:   "and when that great day cometh, behold, the time very soon cometh that those who are now, or the seed of those who are now numbered among the people o..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:14):
     EARLIER: "but whosoever remaineth, and is not destroyed in that great and dreadful day, shall be numbered among the Lamanites, and shall become like unto them a..."
     LATER:   "but whosoever remaineth, and is not destroyed in that great and dreadful day, shall be numbered among the Lamanites, and shall become like unto them, ..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:15):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that after Alma has said these things to Helama, he blessed him, and also his other sons; and he also blessed the earth, for t..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that after Alma had said these things to Helaman, he blessed him, and also his other sons: and he also blessed the earth, for ..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:17):
     EARLIER: "And now, when Alma had said these words, he blessed the church, yea, all those which should stand fast in the faith, from that time henceforth;"
     LATER:   "And now, when Alma had said these words, he blessed the church, yea, all those who should stand fast in the faith, from that time henceforth;"

  12. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:18):
     EARLIER: "and when Alma had done this, he departed out of the land of Zarahemla, as if to go into the land of Melek.--And it came to pass that he was never hear..."
     LATER:   "and when Alma had done this, he departed out of the land of Zarahemla, as if to go into the land of Melek. And it came to pass that he was never heard..."

  13. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:19):
     EARLIER: "Behold, this we know, that he was a righteous man; and the saying went abroad in the church, that he was taken up by the spirit, or buried by the hand..."
     LATER:   "Behold, this we know, that he was a righteous man; and the saying went abroad in the church, that he was taken up by the spirit, or buried by the hand..."

  14. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:21):
     EARLIER: "for behold, because of their wars with the Lamanites, and the many little dissentions and disturbances which had been among the people, it became expe..."
     LATER:   "for behold, because of their wars with the Lamanites, and the many little dissensions and disturbances which had been among the people, it became expe..."

  15. WORD CHANGE (Alma 45:23):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that after Helaman and his brethren had appointed priests and teachers over the churches, that there arose a dissention among ..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that after Helaman and his brethren had appointed priests and teachers over the churches, that there arose a dissension among ..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1837 Kirtland edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1837-02-01]

Alma 45:1 Behold, now it came to pass that the people of Nephi were exceedingly rejoiced, because the Lord had again delivered them out of the hands of their enemies; therefore they gave thanks unto the Lord their God; yea, and they did fast much and pray much, and they did worship God with exceeding great joy.

Alma 45:2 And it came to pass in the nineteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, that Alma came unto his son Helaman, and said unto him, believest thou the words which I spake unto thee concerning those records which have been kept?

Alma 45:3 And Helaman said unto him, yea, I believe.

Alma 45:4 And Alma said again, believest thou in Jesus Christ, who shall come?

Alma 45:5 And he said, yea, I believe all the words which thou hast spoken.

Alma 45:6 And Alma said unto him again, will ye keep my commandments?

Alma 45:7 And he said, yea, I will keep thy commandments with all my heart.

Alma 45:8 Then Alma said unto him, blessed art thou; and the Lord shall prosper thee in this land.

Alma 45:9 But behold, I have somewhat to prophesy unto thee; but what I prophesy unto thee, ye shall not make known; yea, what I prophesy unto thee shall not be made known, even until the prophecy is fulfilled; therefore write the words which I shall say.

Alma 45:10 And these are the words: Behold, I perceive that this very people, the Nephites, according to the spirit of revelation which is in me, in four hundred years from the time that Jesus Christ shall manifest himself unto them, shall dwindle in unbelief;

Alma 45:11 yea, and then shall they see wars and pestilences, yea, famines and bloodshed, even until the people of Nephi shall become extinct;

Alma 45:12 yea, and this because they shall dwindle in unbelief, and fall into the works of darkness and lasciviousness, and all manner of iniquities; yea, I say unto you, that because they shall sin against so great light and knowledge; yea, I say unto you, that from this day, even the fourth generation shall not all pass away, before this great iniquity shall come;

Alma 45:13 and when that great day cometh, behold, the time very soon cometh that those who are now, or the seed of those who are now numbered among the people of Nephi, shall no more be numbered among the people of Nephi;

Alma 45:14 but whosoever remaineth, and is not destroyed in that great and dreadful day, shall be numbered among the Lamanites, and shall become like unto them, all, save it be a few, who shall be called the disciples of the Lord; and them shall the Lamanites pursue, even until they shall become extinct. And now, because of iniquity, this prophecy shall be fulfilled.

Alma 45:15 And now it came to pass that after Alma had said these things to Helaman, he blessed him, and also his other sons: and he also blessed the earth, for the righteous' sake.

Alma 45:16 And he said, thus saith the Lord God: Cursed shall be the land, yea, this land, unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, unto destruction, which do wickedly, when they are fully ripe; and as I have said, so shall it be: for this is the cursing and the blessing of God upon the land, for the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance.

Alma 45:17 And now, when Alma had said these words, he blessed the church, yea, all those who should stand fast in the faith, from that time henceforth;

Alma 45:18 and when Alma had done this, he departed out of the land of Zarahemla, as if to go into the land of Melek. And it came to pass that he was never heard of more; as to his death or burial, we know not of.

Alma 45:19 Behold, this we know, that he was a righteous man; and the saying went abroad in the church, that he was taken up by the spirit, or buried by the hand of the Lord, even as Moses. But behold, the scripture saith the Lord took Moses unto himself; and we suppose that he has also received Alma in the spirit, unto himself; therefore, for this cause, we know nothing concerning his death and burial.

Alma 45:20 And now it came to pass in the commencement of the nineteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, that Helaman went forth among the people to declare the word unto them;

Alma 45:21 for behold, because of their wars with the Lamanites, and the many little dissensions and disturbances which had been among the people, it became expedient that the word of God should be declared among them; yea, and that a regulation should be made throughout the church;

Alma 45:22 therefore Helaman and his brethren went forth to establish the church again in all the land, yea, in every city throughout all the land which was possessed by the people of Nephi. And it came to pass that they did appoint priests and teachers throughout all the land, over all the churches.

Alma 45:23 And now it came to pass that after Helaman and his brethren had appointed priests and teachers over the churches, that there arose a dissension among them, and they would not give heed to the words of Helaman and his brethren;

Alma 45:24 but they grew proud, being lifted up in their hearts, because of their exceeding great riches; therefore they grew rich in their own eyes, and would not give heed to their words, to walk uprightly before God.
