════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Mosiah 25, Book of Mormon, 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1830 (1830-03-26) → 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 25:1):
     EARLIER: "And now king Mosiah caused that all the people be gathered together."
     LATER:   "And now king Mosiah caused that all the people should be gathered together."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 25:2):
     EARLIER: "Now there were not so many of the children of Nephi, or so many of those descendants of Nephi, as they were of the people of Zarahemla, which was a de..."
     LATER:   "Now there were not so many of the children of Nephi, or so many of those who were descendants of Nephi, as there were of the people of Zarahemla, who ..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 25:3):
     EARLIER: "and there were not so many of the people of Nephi and of the people of Zarahemla as there was of the Lamanites; yea, they were not half so numerous."
     LATER:   "and there were not so many of the people of Nephi and of the people of Zarahemla as there were of the Lamanites: yea, they were not half so numerous."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 25:4):
     EARLIER: "And now all the people of Nephi was assembled together, and also all the people of Zarahemla, and they were gathered together in two bodies."
     LATER:   "And now all the people of Nephi were assembled together, and also all the people of Zarahemla, and they were gathered together in two bodies."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 25:7):
     EARLIER: "And now when Mosiah had made an end of reading the records, his people which had tarried in the land was struck with wonder and amazement,"
     LATER:   "And now when Mosiah had made an end of reading the records, his people who tarried in the land were struck with wonder and amazement,"

  6. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 25:9):
     EARLIER: "And again, when they thought of their brethren which had been slain by the Lamanites, they were filled with sorrow, and even shed many tears of sorrow..."
     LATER:   "And again, when they thought of their brethren who had been slain by the Lamanites, they were filled with sorrow, and even shed many tears of sorrow."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 25:11):
     EARLIER: "And again when they thought upon the Lamanites, which was their brethren, of their sinful and polluted state, they were filled with pain and anguish, ..."
     LATER:   "And again, when they thought upon the Lamanites, who were their brethren, of their sinful and polluted state, they were filled with pain and anguish, ..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 25:12):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that when those which were the children of Amulon and his brethren, which had taken to wife the daughters of the Lamanites, they w..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that those who were the children of Amulon and his brethren, who had taken to wife the daughters of the Lamanites, were displeased..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 25:13):
     EARLIER: "And now all the people of Zarahemla were numbered with the Nephites, and this because the kingdom had been conferred upon none but those which were th..."
     LATER:   "And now all the people of Zarahemla were numbered with the Nephites, and this because the kingdom had been conferred upon none but those who were desc..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 25:15):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that Alma did speak unto them, when they were assembled together in large bodies, and he went from one body to another, preaching ..."
     LATER:   "And Alma did speak unto them, when they were assembled together in large bodies, and he went from one body to another, preaching unto the people repen..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 25:24):
     EARLIER: "and they were called the people of God. And the Lord did pour out his spirit unto them, and they were blest, and prospered in the land."
     LATER:   "and they were called the people of God. And the Lord did pour out his spirit unto them, and they were blessed, and prospered in the land."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1837 Kirtland edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1837-02-01]

Mosiah 25:1 And now king Mosiah caused that all the people should be gathered together.

Mosiah 25:2 Now there were not so many of the children of Nephi, or so many of those who were descendants of Nephi, as there were of the people of Zarahemla, who was a descendant of Mulok, and those who came with him into the wilderness:

Mosiah 25:3 and there were not so many of the people of Nephi and of the people of Zarahemla as there were of the Lamanites: yea, they were not half so numerous.

Mosiah 25:4 And now all the people of Nephi were assembled together, and also all the people of Zarahemla, and they were gathered together in two bodies.

Mosiah 25:5 And it came to pass that Mosiah did read, and caused to be read, the records of Zeniff to his people; yea, he read the records of the people of Zeniff, from the time they left the land of Zarahemla until they returned again.

Mosiah 25:6 And he also read the account of Alma and his brethren, and all their afflictions, from the time they left the land of Zarahemla, until the time they returned again.

Mosiah 25:7 And now when Mosiah had made an end of reading the records, his people who tarried in the land were struck with wonder and amazement,

Mosiah 25:8 for they knew not what to think; for when they beheld those that had been delivered out of bondage, they were filled with exceeding great joy.

Mosiah 25:9 And again, when they thought of their brethren who had been slain by the Lamanites, they were filled with sorrow, and even shed many tears of sorrow.

Mosiah 25:10 And again, when they thought of the immediate goodness of God, and his power in delivering Alma and his brethren out of the hands of the Lamanites, and of bondage, they did raise their voices, and gave thanks to God.

Mosiah 25:11 And again, when they thought upon the Lamanites, who were their brethren, of their sinful and polluted state, they were filled with pain and anguish, for the welfare of their souls.

Mosiah 25:12 And it came to pass that those who were the children of Amulon and his brethren, who had taken to wife the daughters of the Lamanites, were displeased with the conduct of their fathers, and they would no longer be called by the names of their fathers, therefore they took upon themselves the name of Nephi, that they might be called the children of Nephi, and be numbered among those who were called Nephites.

Mosiah 25:13 And now all the people of Zarahemla were numbered with the Nephites, and this because the kingdom had been conferred upon none but those who were descendants of Nephi.

Mosiah 25:14 And now it came to pass that when Mosiah had made an end of speaking and reading to the people, he desired that Alma should also speak to the people.

Mosiah 25:15 And Alma did speak unto them, when they were assembled together in large bodies, and he went from one body to another, preaching unto the people repentance and faith on the Lord.

Mosiah 25:16 And he did exhort the people of Limhi and his brethren, all these that had been delivered out of bondage, that they should remember that it was the Lord that did deliver them.

Mosiah 25:17 And it came to pass that after Alma had taught the people many things, and had made an end of speaking to them, the king Limhi was desirous that he might be baptized; and all his people were desirous that they might be baptized also.

Mosiah 25:18 Therefore Alma did go forth into the water, and did baptize them; yea, he did baptize them after the manner he did his brethren in the waters of Mormon; yea, and as many as he did baptize did belong to the church of God; and this because of their belief on the words of Alma.

Mosiah 25:19 And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted unto Alma, that he might establish churches throughout all the land of Zarahemla; and gave him power to ordain priests and teachers over every church.

Mosiah 25:20 Now this was done because there was so many people that they could not all be governed by one teacher; neither could they all hear the word of God in one assembly;

Mosiah 25:21 therefore they did assemble themselves together in different bodies, being called churches; every church having their priests and their teachers, and every priest preaching the word according as it was delivered to him by the mouth of Alma;

Mosiah 25:22 and thus, notwithstanding there being many churches, they were all one church; yea, even the church of God: for there was nothing preached in all the churches except it were repentance and faith in God.

Mosiah 25:23 And now there was seven churches in the land of Zarahemla. And it came to pass that whosoever was desirous to take upon them the name of Christ, or of God, they did join the churches of God;

Mosiah 25:24 and they were called the people of God. And the Lord did pour out his spirit unto them, and they were blessed, and prospered in the land.
