════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Alma 10, Book of Mormon, 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1830 (1830-03-26) → 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:1):
     EARLIER: "Now these are the words that Amulek preached unto the people which was in the land of Ammonihah, saying:"
     LATER:   "Now these are the words which Amulek preached unto the people who were in the land of Ammonihah, saying:"

  2. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:3):
     EARLIER: "--And Aminadi was a descendant of Nephi, who was the son of Lehi, who came out of the land of Jerusalem, who was a descendant of Manasseh, who was the..."
     LATER:   "And Aminadi was a descendant of Nephi, who was the son of Lehi, who came out of the land of Jerusalem, who was a descendant of Manasseh, who was the s..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:4):
     EARLIER: "And behold, I am also a man of no small reputation among all those who know me; yea, and behold, I have many kindred and friends, and I have also acqu..."
     LATER:   "And behold, I am also a man of no small reputation among all those who know me; yea, and behold, I have many kindreds and friends, and I have also acq..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:5):
     EARLIER: "nevertheless, after all this, I never have known much of the ways of the Lord, and his mysteries and marvellous power. I said I never had known much o..."
     LATER:   "nevertheless, after all this, I never have known much of the ways of the Lord, and his mysteries and marvelous power. I said I never had known much of..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:6):
     EARLIER: "nevertheless, I did harden my heart, for I was called many times, and I would not hear; therefore I knew concerning these things, yet I would not know..."
     LATER:   "nevertheless, I did harden my heart, for I was called many times, and I would not hear: therefore I knew concerning these things, yet I would not know..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:7):
     EARLIER: "As I was a journeying to see a very near kindred, behold an angel of the Lord appeared unto me, and said, Amulek, return to thine own house, for thou ..."
     LATER:   "As I was a journeying to see a very near kindred, behold an angel of the Lord appeared unto me, and said, Amulek, return to thine own house, for thou ..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:8):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that I obeyed the voice of the angel, and returned towards my house. And as I was a going thither, I found the man which the angel..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that I obeyed the voice of the angel, and returned towards my house. And as I was going thither, I found the man whom the angel sa..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:10):
     EARLIER: "And again: I know that the things whereof he hath testified are true; for behold, I say unto you, that as the Lord liveth, even so he hath sent his an..."
     LATER:   "And again, I know that the things whereof he hath testified are true: for behold, I say unto you, that as the Lord liveth, even so he has sent his ang..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:11):
     EARLIER: "for behold, he hath blessed mine home, he hath blessed me, and my woman, and my children, and my father, and my kinsfolks; yea, even all my kindred ha..."
     LATER:   "for behold, he hath blessed mine house, he hath blessed me, and my women, and my children, and my father, and my kinsfolks; yea, even all my kindred h..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:12):
     EARLIER: "And now when Amulek had spoken these words, the people began to be astonished, seeing there was more than one witness which testifieth of the things w..."
     LATER:   "And now when Amulek had spoken these words, the people began to be astonished, seeing there was more than one witness who testified of the things wher..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:13):
     EARLIER: "nevertheless, there were some among them which thought to question them, that by their cunning devices they might catch them in their words, that they..."
     LATER:   "nevertheless, there were some among them who thought to question them, that by their cunning devices they might catch them in their words, that they m..."

  12. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:14):
     EARLIER: "Now it was those men which sought to destroy them, which were Lawyers, which were hired or appointed by the people to administer the law at their time..."
     LATER:   "Now it was those men who sought to destroy them, who were lawyers, who were hired or appointed by the people to administer the law at their times of t..."

  13. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:15):
     EARLIER: "Judges. Now these Lawyers were learned in all the arts and cunning of the people; and this was to enable them that they might be skilful in their prof..."
     LATER:   ". Now these lawyers were learned in all the arts and cunning of the people; and this was to enable them that they might be skilful in their profession..."

  14. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:17):
     EARLIER: "Now they knew not that Amulek could know of their designs. But it came to pass as they began to question him, he perceived their thoughts, and he sait..."
     LATER:   "Now they knew not that Amulek could know of their designs. But it came to pass as they began to question him, he percieved their thoughts, and he said..."

  15. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:22):
     EARLIER: "Yea, and I say unto you, that if it were not for the prayers of the righteous, which are now in the land, that ye would even now be visited with utter..."
     LATER:   "Yea, and I say unto you, that if it were not for the prayers of the righteous, who are now in the land, that ye would even now be visited with utter d..."

  16. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:24):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that the people were more angry with Amulek, and they cried out saying: This man doth revile against our laws, which are just,..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that the people were more angry with Amulek, and they cried out saying: this man doth revile against our laws, which are just,..."

  17. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:28):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that when Amulek had spoken these words, the people cried out against him, saying, Now we know that this man is a child of the..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that when Amulek had spoken these words, the people cried out against him, saying, now we know that this man is a child of the..."

  18. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:29):
     EARLIER: "And again: he hath reviled against our Lawyers, and our Judges, &c."
     LATER:   "And again: he has reviled against our lawyers, and our judges, &c."

  19. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:31):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that there was one among them whose name was Zeezrom. Now he being the foremost to accuse Amulek and Alma, he being one of the mos..."
     LATER:   "And there was one among them whose name was Zeezrom.--Now he was the foremost to accuse Amulek and Alma, he being one of the most expert among them, h..."

  20. WORD CHANGE (Alma 10:32):
     EARLIER: "Now the object of these Lawyers were to get gain; and they got gain according to their employ."
     LATER:   "Now the object of these lawyers was to get gain; and they got gain according to their employ."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1837 Kirtland edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1837-02-01]

Alma 10:1 Now these are the words which Amulek preached unto the people who were in the land of Ammonihah, saying:

Alma 10:2 I am Amulek; I am the son of Giddonah, who was the son of Ishmael, who was a descendant of Aminadi: and it was that same Aminadi who interpreted the writing which was upon the wall of the temple, which was written by the finger of God.

Alma 10:3 And Aminadi was a descendant of Nephi, who was the son of Lehi, who came out of the land of Jerusalem, who was a descendant of Manasseh, who was the son of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt by the hands of his brethren.

Alma 10:4 And behold, I am also a man of no small reputation among all those who know me; yea, and behold, I have many kindreds and friends, and I have also acquired much riches by the hand of my industry;

Alma 10:5 nevertheless, after all this, I never have known much of the ways of the Lord, and his mysteries and marvelous power. I said I never had known much of these things; but behold, I mistake, for I have seen much of his mysteries and his marvelous power; yea, even in the preservation of the lives of this people;

Alma 10:6 nevertheless, I did harden my heart, for I was called many times, and I would not hear: therefore I knew concerning these things, yet I would not know; therefore I went on rebelling against God, in the wickedness of my heart, even until the fourth day of this seventh month, which is in the tenth year of the reign of our judges.

Alma 10:7 As I was a journeying to see a very near kindred, behold an angel of the Lord appeared unto me, and said, Amulek, return to thine own house, for thou shalt feed a prophet of the Lord; yea, a holy man, who is a chosen man of God; for he has fasted many days because of the sins of this people, and he is an hungered, and thou shalt receive him into thy house and feed him, and he shall bless thee and thy house: and the blessing of the Lord shall rest upon thee and thy house.

Alma 10:8 And it came to pass that I obeyed the voice of the angel, and returned towards my house. And as I was going thither, I found the man whom the angel said unto me, thou shalt receive into thy house; and behold it was this same man who has been speaking unto you concerning the things of God.

Alma 10:9 And the angel said unto me, he is a holy man; wherefore I know he is a holy man, because it was said by an angel of God.

Alma 10:10 And again, I know that the things whereof he hath testified are true: for behold, I say unto you, that as the Lord liveth, even so he has sent his angel to make these things manifest unto me; and this he has done while this Alma hath dwelt at my house;

Alma 10:11 for behold, he hath blessed mine house, he hath blessed me, and my women, and my children, and my father, and my kinsfolks; yea, even all my kindred hath he blessed, and the blessing of the Lord hath rested upon us according to the words which he spake.

Alma 10:12 And now when Amulek had spoken these words, the people began to be astonished, seeing there was more than one witness who testified of the things whereof they were accused, and also of the things which were to come, according to the spirit of prophecy which was in them;

Alma 10:13 nevertheless, there were some among them who thought to question them, that by their cunning devices they might catch them in their words, that they might find witness against them, that they might deliver them to the judges, that they might be judged according to the law, and that they might be slain or cast into prison, according to the crime which they could make appear, or witness against them.

Alma 10:14 Now it was those men who sought to destroy them, who were lawyers, who were hired or appointed by the people to administer the law at their times of trials, or at the trials of the crimes of the people, before the judges

Alma 10:15 . Now these lawyers were learned in all the arts and cunning of the people; and this was to enable them that they might be skilful in their profession.

Alma 10:16 And it came to pass that they began to question Amulek, that thereby they might make him cross his words, or contradict the words which he should speak.

Alma 10:17 Now they knew not that Amulek could know of their designs. But it came to pass as they began to question him, he percieved their thoughts, and he said unto them, O ye wicked and perverse generation; ye lawyers and hypocrites: for ye are laying the foundations of the devil; for ye are laying traps and snares to catch the holy ones of God:

Alma 10:18 ye are laying plans to pervert the ways of the righteous, and to bring down the wrath of God upon your heads, even to the utter destruction of this people:

Alma 10:19 yea, well did Mosiah say, who was our last king, when he was about to deliver up the kingdom, having no one to confer it upon, causing that this people should be governed by their own voices; yea, well did he say, that if the time should come that the voice of this people should choose iniquity; that is, if the time should come that this people should fall into transgression, they would be ripe for destruction.

Alma 10:20 And now I say unto you, that well doth the Lord judge your iniquities; well doth he cry unto this people, by the voice of his angels, repent ye, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.

Alma 10:21 Yea, well doth he cry, by the voice of his angels, that I will come down among my people, with equity and justice in my hands.

Alma 10:22 Yea, and I say unto you, that if it were not for the prayers of the righteous, who are now in the land, that ye would even now be visited with utter destruction; yet it would not be by flood, as were the people in the days of Noah, but it would be by famine, and by pestilence, and the sword.

Alma 10:23 But it is by the prayers of the righteous that ye are spared; now therefore if ye will cast out the righteous from among you, then will not the Lord stay his hand, but in his fierce anger he will come down against you; then ye shall be smitten by famine, and by pestilence, and by the sword; and the time is soon at hand, except ye repent.

Alma 10:24 And now it came to pass that the people were more angry with Amulek, and they cried out saying: this man doth revile against our laws, which are just, and our wise lawyers whom we have selected.

Alma 10:25 But Amulek stretched forth his hand, and cried the mightier unto them, saying: O ye wicked and perverse generation; why hath satan got such great hold upon your hearts? Why will ye yield yourselves unto him that he may have power over you, to blind your eyes, that ye will not understand the words which are spoken, according to their truth?

Alma 10:26 For behold, have I testified against your law? Ye do not understand; ye say that I have spoken against your law; but I have not; but I have spoken in favor of your law, to your condemnation.

Alma 10:27 And now behold, I say unto you, that the foundation of the destruction of this people is a beginning to be laid by the unrighteousness of your lawyers and your judges.

Alma 10:28 And now it came to pass that when Amulek had spoken these words, the people cried out against him, saying, now we know that this man is a child of the devil, for he hath lied unto us; for he hath spoken against our law. And now he says that he has not spoken against it.

Alma 10:29 And again: he has reviled against our lawyers, and our judges, &c.

Alma 10:30 And it came to pass that the lawyers put it into their hearts that they should remember these things against him.

Alma 10:31 And there was one among them whose name was Zeezrom.--Now he was the foremost to accuse Amulek and Alma, he being one of the most expert among them, having much business to do among the people.

Alma 10:32 Now the object of these lawyers was to get gain; and they got gain according to their employ.
