════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Mosiah 15, Book of Mormon, 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1830 (1830-03-26) → 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:1):
     EARLIER: "And now Abinadi saith unto them, I would that ye should understand that God himself shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his pe..."
     LATER:   "And now Abinadi said unto them, I would that ye should understand that God himself shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his peo..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:11):
     EARLIER: "Behold I say unto you, that whosoever hath heard the words of the prophets, yea, all the Holy Prophets which have prophesied concerning the coming of ..."
     LATER:   "Behold I say unto you, that whosoever has heard the words of the prophets, yea, all the holy prophets who have prophesied concerning the coming of the..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:12):
     EARLIER: "for these are they whose sins he hath borne; these are they for whom he hath died, to redeem them from their transgressions. And now, are they not his..."
     LATER:   "for these are they whose sins he has borne; these are they for whom he has died, to redeem them from their transgressions. And now, are they not his s..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:14):
     EARLIER: "and these are they which hath published peace, that hath brought good tidings of good, that hath published salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God re..."
     LATER:   "and these are they who have published peace, who have brought good tidings of good, who have published salvation; and said unto Zion, thy God reigneth..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:18):
     EARLIER: "And behold, I say unto you, this is not all: For O how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that is the founde..."
     LATER:   "And behold, I say unto you, this is not all: For O how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that is the founde..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:19):
     EARLIER: "for were it not for the redemption which he hath made for his people, which was prepared from the foundation of the world; I say unto you, were it not..."
     LATER:   "for were it not for the redemption which he hath made for his people, which was prepared from the foundation of the world; I say unto you, were it not..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:21):
     EARLIER: "And there cometh a resurrection, even a first resurrection; yea, even a resurrection of those that have been and which are, and which shall be, even u..."
     LATER:   "And there cometh a resurrection, even a first resurrection; yea, even a resurrection of those that have been, and who are, and who shall be, even unti..."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:22):
     EARLIER: "And now, the resurrection of all the prophets, and all those that have believed in their words, or all those that have kept the commandments of God, t..."
     LATER:   "And now, the resurrection of all the prophets, and all those that have believed in their words, or all those that have kept the commandments of God, s..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:23):
     EARLIER: "They are raised to dwell with God, who hath redeemed them: thus they have eternal life through Christ, who hath broken the bands of death."
     LATER:   "They are raised to dwell with God who has redeemed them: thus they have eternal life through Christ, who has broken the bands of death."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:24):
     EARLIER: "And there are those who have a part in the first resurrection; and these are they that have died before Christ came, in their ignorance, not having sa..."
     LATER:   "And these are those who have part in the first resurrection; and these are they that have died before Christ came, in their ignorance, not having salv..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:25):
     EARLIER: "And little children also, hath eternal life."
     LATER:   "And little children also have eternal life."

  12. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:26):
     EARLIER: "But behold, and fear, and tremble before God; for ye had ought to tremble: for the Lord redeemeth none such that rebelleth against him, and dieth in t..."
     LATER:   "But behold, and fear, and tremble before God; for ye ought to tremble: for the Lord redeemeth none such that rebel against him, and die in their sins;..."

  13. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:27):
     EARLIER: "Therefore, had ye not ought to tremble? For salvation cometh to none such; for the Lord hath redeemed none such; yea, neither can the Lord redeem such..."
     LATER:   "Therefore had ye not ought to tremble? For salvation cometh to none such; for the Lord hath redeemed none such; yea, neither can the Lord redeem such:..."

  14. WORD CHANGE (Mosiah 15:29):
     EARLIER: "Yea, Lord, the watchmen shall lift up their voice; with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring a..."
     LATER:   "Yea, Lord, thy watchmen shall lift up their voice: with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring a..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1837 Kirtland edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1837-02-01]

Mosiah 15:1 And now Abinadi said unto them, I would that ye should understand that God himself shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his people;

Mosiah 15:2 and because he dwelleth in flesh, he shall be called the Son of God: and having subjected the flesh to the will of the Father, being the Father and the Son;

Mosiah 15:3 the Father, because he was conceived by the power of God; and the Son, because of the flesh; thus becoming the Father and Son

Mosiah 15:4 : and they are one God, yea, the very eternal Father of heaven and of earth;

Mosiah 15:5 and thus the flesh becoming subject to the Spirit, or the Son to the Father, being one God, suffereth temptation, and yieldeth not to the temptation, but suffereth himself to be mocked, and scourged, and cast out, and disowned by his people.

Mosiah 15:6 And after all this, and after working many mighty miracles among the children of men, he shall be led, yea, even as Isaiah said, as a sheep before the shearer is dumb, so he opened not his mouth;

Mosiah 15:7 yea, even so he shall be led, crucified and slain, the flesh becoming subject even unto death, the will of the Son being swallowed up in the will of the Father;

Mosiah 15:8 and thus God breaketh the bands of death; having gained the victory over death; giving the Son power to make intercession for the children of men;

Mosiah 15:9 having ascended into heaven; having the bowels of mercy; being filled with compassion toward the children of men; standing betwixt them and justice; having broken the bands of death, taken upon himself their iniquity and their transgressions; having redeemed them, and satisfied the demands of justice.

Mosiah 15:10 And now I say unto you, who shall declare his generation?- -Behold, I say unto you, that when his soul has been made an offering for sin, he shall see his seed. And now what say ye? And who shall be his seed?

Mosiah 15:11 Behold I say unto you, that whosoever has heard the words of the prophets, yea, all the holy prophets who have prophesied concerning the coming of the Lord; I say unto you, that all those who hath hearkened unto their words, and believed that the Lord would redeem his people, and have looked forward to that day for a remission of their sins; I say unto you, that these are his seed, or they are heirs of the kingdom of God:

Mosiah 15:12 for these are they whose sins he has borne; these are they for whom he has died, to redeem them from their transgressions. And now, are they not his seed?

Mosiah 15:13 Yea, and are not the prophets, every one that has opened his mouth to prophesy, that has not fallen into transgression; I mean all the holy prophets ever since the world began? I say unto you that they are his seed;

Mosiah 15:14 and these are they who have published peace, who have brought good tidings of good, who have published salvation; and said unto Zion, thy God reigneth!

Mosiah 15:15 And O how beautiful upon the mountains were their feet!

Mosiah 15:16 And again, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those that are still publishing peace!

Mosiah 15:17 And again, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those who shall hereafter publish peace, yea, from this time henceforth and forever!

Mosiah 15:18 And behold, I say unto you, this is not all: For O how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that is the founder of peace; yea, even the Lord, who has redeemed his people; yea, him who has granted salvation unto his people:

Mosiah 15:19 for were it not for the redemption which he hath made for his people, which was prepared from the foundation of the world; I say unto you, were it not for this, all mankind must have perished.

Mosiah 15:20 But behold, the bands of death shall be broken, and the Son reigneth, and hath power over the dead; therefore, he bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead.

Mosiah 15:21 And there cometh a resurrection, even a first resurrection; yea, even a resurrection of those that have been, and who are, and who shall be, even until the resurrection of Christ: for so shall he be called.

Mosiah 15:22 And now, the resurrection of all the prophets, and all those that have believed in their words, or all those that have kept the commandments of God, shall come forth in the first resurrection; therefore, they are the first resurrection.

Mosiah 15:23 They are raised to dwell with God who has redeemed them: thus they have eternal life through Christ, who has broken the bands of death.

Mosiah 15:24 And these are those who have part in the first resurrection; and these are they that have died before Christ came, in their ignorance, not having salvation declared unto them. And thus the Lord bringeth about the restoration of these; and they have a part in the first resurrection, or have eternal life, being redeemed by the Lord.

Mosiah 15:25 And little children also have eternal life.

Mosiah 15:26 But behold, and fear, and tremble before God; for ye ought to tremble: for the Lord redeemeth none such that rebel against him, and die in their sins; yea, even all those that have perished in their sins ever since the world began, that have wilfully rebelled against God, that have known the commandments of God, and would not keep them; these are they that have no part in the first resurrection.

Mosiah 15:27 Therefore had ye not ought to tremble? For salvation cometh to none such; for the Lord hath redeemed none such; yea, neither can the Lord redeem such: for he cannot deny himself; for he cannot deny justice when it has its claim.

Mosiah 15:28 And now I say unto you, that the time shall come that the salvation of the Lord shall be declared to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people.

Mosiah 15:29 Yea, Lord, thy watchmen shall lift up their voice: with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion.

Mosiah 15:30 Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem: for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem.

Mosiah 15:31 The Lord hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations: and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.
