════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TEXTUAL CHANGES — Helaman 3, Book of Mormon, 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

▶ Changes from 1830 (1830-03-26) → 1837 Kirtland (1837-02-01):

  1. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:1):
     EARLIER: "And now it came to pass that in the forty and third year of the reign of the Judges, there was no contention among the people of Nephi, save it were a..."
     LATER:   "And now it came to pass that in the forty and third year of the reign of the judges, there was no contention among the people of Nephi, save it were a..."

  2. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:3):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass in the forty and sixth, yea, there were much contentions and many dissentions; in the which there were an exceeding great many whi..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass in the forty and sixth, yea, there were much contentions and many dissensions; in the which there were an exceeding great many who..."

  3. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:5):
     EARLIER: "yea, and even they did spread forth into all parts of the land, into whatsoever parts it had not been rendered desolate, and without timber, because o..."
     LATER:   "yea, and even they did spread forth into all parts of the land, into whatsoever parts it had not been rendered desolate, and without timber, because o..."

  4. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:6):
     EARLIER: "And now no part of the land was desolate, save it were for timber, &c.; but because of the greatness of the destruction of the people which had before..."
     LATER:   "And now no part of the land was desolate, save it were for timber, &c.; but because of the greatness of the destruction of the people who had before i..."

  5. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:7):
     EARLIER: "And there being but little timber upon the face of the land, nevertheless the people which went forth, became exceeding expert in the working of cemen..."
     LATER:   "And there being but little timber upon the face of the land, nevertheless the people who went forth, became exceeding expert in the working of cement;..."

  6. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:9):
     EARLIER: "And the people which were in the land northward, did dwell in tents, and in houses of cement, and they did suffer whatsoever tree should spring up upo..."
     LATER:   "And the people who were in the land northward, did dwell in tents, and in houses of cement, and they did suffer whatsoever tree should spring up upon ..."

  7. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:12):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that there were many of the people of Ammon, which were Lamanites by birth, did also go forth into this land."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that there were many of the people of Ammon, who were Lamanites by birth, did also go forth into this land."

  8. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:14):
     EARLIER: "but behold a hundredth part of the proceedings of this people, yea, the account of the Lamanites, and of the Nephites, and their wars, and contentions..."
     LATER:   "but behold a hundredth part of the proceedings of this people, yea, the account of the Lamanites, and of the Nephites, and their wars, and contentions..."

  9. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:16):
     EARLIER: "and they have been handed down from one generation to another, by the Nephites, even unto they have fallen into transgression, and have been murdered,..."
     LATER:   "and they have been handed down from one generation to another, by the Nephites, even until they have fallen into transgression, and have been murdered..."

  10. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:17):
     EARLIER: "And now I return again to mine account; therefore what I have spoken had passed after there had been great contentions, and disturbances, and wars, an..."
     LATER:   "And now I return again to mine account; therefore what I have spoken had passed after there had been great contentions, and disturbances, and wars, an..."

  11. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:23):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass in the forty and ninth year of the reign of the Judges, there was continual peace established in the land, all save it were the se..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass in the forty and ninth year of the reign of the judges, there was continual peace established in the land, all save it were the se..."

  12. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:28):
     EARLIER: "yea, thus we see that the gate of heaven is open unto all, even to those who will believe on the name of Jesus Christ, which is the son of God;"
     LATER:   "yea, thus we see that the gate of heaven is open unto all, even to those who will believe on the name of Jesus Christ, who is the Son of God;"

  13. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:34):
     EARLIER: "and they were lifted up in pride, even as to the persecution of many of their brethren. Now this was a great evil, which did cause the humble part of ..."
     LATER:   "and they were lifted up in pride, even as to the persecution of many of their brethren.--Now this was a great evil, which did cause the more humble pa..."

  14. WORD CHANGE (Helaman 3:36):
     EARLIER: "And it came to pass that the fifty and second year ended in peace also, save it were the exceeding great pride which had got into the hearts of the pe..."
     LATER:   "And it came to pass that the fifty and second year ended in peace also, save it were the exceeding great pride which had gotten into the hearts of the..."


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
[Full 1837 Kirtland edition text follows below]
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[1837-02-01]

Helaman 3:1 And now it came to pass that in the forty and third year of the reign of the judges, there was no contention among the people of Nephi, save it were a little pride which was in the church, which did cause some little dissensions among the people, which affairs were settled in the ending of the forty and third year.

Helaman 3:2 And there was no contention among the people in the forty and fourth year; neither was there much contention in the forty and fifth year.

Helaman 3:3 And it came to pass in the forty and sixth, yea, there were much contentions and many dissensions; in the which there were an exceeding great many who departed out of the land of Zarahemla, and went forth unto the land northward, to inherit the land;

Helaman 3:4 and they did travel to an exceeding great distance, insomuch that they came to large bodies of water, and many rivers;

Helaman 3:5 yea, and even they did spread forth into all parts of the land, into whatsoever parts it had not been rendered desolate, and without timber, because of the many inhabitants who had before inherited the land.

Helaman 3:6 And now no part of the land was desolate, save it were for timber, &c.; but because of the greatness of the destruction of the people who had before inhabited the land, it was called desolate.

Helaman 3:7 And there being but little timber upon the face of the land, nevertheless the people who went forth, became exceeding expert in the working of cement; therefore they did build houses of cement, in the which they did dwell.

Helaman 3:8 And it came to pass that they did multiply and spread, and did go forth from the land southward to the land northward, and did spread insomuch that they began to cover the face of the whole earth, from the sea south, to the sea north, from the sea west, to the sea east.

Helaman 3:9 And the people who were in the land northward, did dwell in tents, and in houses of cement, and they did suffer whatsoever tree should spring up upon the face of the land, that it should grow up, that in time they might have timber to build their houses, yea, their cities, and their temples, and their synagogues, and their sanctuaries, and all manner of their buildings.

Helaman 3:10 And it came to pass as timber was exceeding scarce in the land northward, they did send forth much by the way of shipping;

Helaman 3:11 and thus they did enable the people in the land northward, that they might build many cities, both of wood and of cement.

Helaman 3:12 And it came to pass that there were many of the people of Ammon, who were Lamanites by birth, did also go forth into this land.

Helaman 3:13 And now there are many records kept of the proceedings of this people, by many of this people, which are particular and very large, concerning them;

Helaman 3:14 but behold a hundredth part of the proceedings of this people, yea, the account of the Lamanites, and of the Nephites, and their wars, and contentions, and dissensions, and their preaching, and their prophecies, and their shipping, and their building of ships, and their building of temples, and of synagogues, and their sanctuaries, and their righteousness, and their wickedness, and their murders, and their robbings, and their plundering, and all manner of abominations and whoredoms, cannot be contained in this work;

Helaman 3:15 but behold, there are many books and many records of every kind, and they have been kept chiefly by the Nephites;

Helaman 3:16 and they have been handed down from one generation to another, by the Nephites, even until they have fallen into transgression, and have been murdered, plundered, and hunted, and driven forth, and slain, and scattered upon the face of the earth, and mixed with the Lamanites until they are no more called the Nephites, becoming wicked, and wild, and ferocious, yea, even becoming Lamanites.

Helaman 3:17 And now I return again to mine account; therefore what I have spoken had passed after there had been great contentions, and disturbances, and wars, and dissensions among the people of Nephi.

Helaman 3:18 The forty and sixth year of the reign of the judges ended.

Helaman 3:19 And it came to pass that there was still great contentions in the land, yea, even in the forty and seventh year, and also in the forty and eighth year;

Helaman 3:20 nevertheless, Helaman did fill the judgment seat with justice and equity; yea, he did observe to keep the statutes, and the judgments, and the commandments of God; and he did do that which was right in the sight of God continually; and he did walk after the ways of his father, insomuch that he did prosper in the land.

Helaman 3:21 And it came to pass that he had two sons. He gave unto the eldest the name of Nephi, and unto the youngest the name of Lehi. And they began to grow up unto the Lord.

Helaman 3:22 And it came to pass that the wars and contentions began to cease, in a small degree, among the people of the Nephites, in the latter end of the forty and eighth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.

Helaman 3:23 And it came to pass in the forty and ninth year of the reign of the judges, there was continual peace established in the land, all save it were the secret combinations which Gadianton the robber had established, in the more settled parts of the land, which at that time were not known unto those who were at the head of government; therefore they were not destroyed out of the land.

Helaman 3:24 And it came to pass that in this same year, there was exceeding great prosperity in the church, insomuch that there were thousands who did join themselves unto the church, and were baptized unto repentance;

Helaman 3:25 and so great was the prosperity of the church, and so many the blessings which were poured out upon the people, that even the high priests and the teachers were themselves astonished beyond measure.

Helaman 3:26 And it came to pass that the work of the Lord did prosper, unto the baptizing and uniting to the church of God many souls; yea, even tens of thousands.

Helaman 3:27 Thus we may see that the Lord is merciful unto all who will, in the sincerity of their hearts, call upon his holy name;

Helaman 3:28 yea, thus we see that the gate of heaven is open unto all, even to those who will believe on the name of Jesus Christ, who is the Son of God;

Helaman 3:29 yea, we see that whosoever will lay hold upon the word of God which is quick and powerful, which shall divide asunder all the cunning, and the snares, and the wiles of the devil, and lead the man of Christ in a straight and narrow course across that everlasting gulf of misery which is prepared to engulf the wicked,

Helaman 3:30 and land their souls, yea, their immortal souls, at the right hand of God, in the kingdom of heaven, to sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and with Jacob, and with all our holy fathers, to go no more out.

Helaman 3:31 And in this year there were continual rejoicing in the land of Zarahemla, and in all the regions round about, even in all the land which was possessed by the Nephites.

Helaman 3:32 And it came to pass that there was peace and exceeding great joy in the remainder of the forty and ninth year; yea, and also there was continual peace and great joy in the fiftieth year of the reign of the judges.

Helaman 3:33 And in the fifty and first year of the reign of the judges, there was peace also, save it were the pride which began to enter into the church; not into the church of God, but into the hearts of the people who professed to belong to the church of God;

Helaman 3:34 and they were lifted up in pride, even as to the persecution of many of their brethren.--Now this was a great evil, which did cause the more humble part of the people to suffer great persecutions, and to wade through much affliction;

Helaman 3:35 nevertheless, they did fast and pray oft, and did wax stronger and stronger in their humility, and firmer and firmer in the faith of Christ, unto the filling their souls with joy and consolation, yea, even to the purifying and the sanctification of their hearts, which sanctification cometh because of their yielding their hearts unto God.

Helaman 3:36 And it came to pass that the fifty and second year ended in peace also, save it were the exceeding great pride which had gotten into the hearts of the people; and it was because of their exceeding great riches, and their prosperity in the land; and it did grow upon them from day to day.

Helaman 3:37 And it came to pass in the fifty and third year of the reign of the judges, Helaman died, and his eldest son Nephi began to reign in his stead. And it came to pass that he did fill the judgment seat with justice and equity; yea, he did keep the commandments of God, and did walk in the ways of his father.
