D&C 113

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/questions-and-answers-between-circa-16-and-circa-29-march-1838-a-dc-1131-6/1

“Quest. on Scripture,” [ Far West , Caldwell Co., MO], [between ca. 16 and ca. 29 Mar. 1838].
Featured version copied [ca. mid- or late Apr. 1838] in JS, Journal, Mar.–Sept. 1838, p. 17 ;
handwriting of George W. Robinson ; CHL. Includes use marks. For more complete source information,
see the source note for JS, Journal, Mar.–Sept. 1838 .

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

Sometime in mid- or late March 1838, after JS arrived in Far West , Missouri, he apparently
answered a series of questions regarding the prophecies in Isaiah chapters 11 and 52. The questions
and answers were inscribed in JS’s “Scriptory Book” by George Robinson . No authorship was
attributed to the questions and answers, although some of the answers begin with “thus saith the
Lord.” JS’s authorship is implied, in that some of the answers are couched in the language of
revelation, similar to other revelations transcribed in the Scriptory Book. 1 Further, most of the
documents transcribed in the book are explicitly JS documents. When the questions and answers
regarding the prophecies of Isaiah were copied into the multivolume manuscript history JS began in
1838, they were grouped under the heading “Questions on Scripture.” 2 Following this format, the
questions and answers were presented as a unified set when the history was later printed in the
church’s newspaper. 3 The Doctrine and Covenants, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, Containing the Revelations Given to Joseph Smith, Jun., the Prophet, for the Building Up of
the Kingdom of God in the Last Days. Salt Lake City: Deseret News Office, 1876. However, the five
question-and-answer pairs were inscribed in the Scriptory Book under two headings: the first three
pairs appear under the heading “Quest. on Scripture,” while the remaining two appear under the
heading “ Questions by Elias Higby .” 4 These headings are comparable to the other headings in the
Scriptory Book that were used to demarcate different

═══ REVELATION TEXT ═══

Quest. on Scripture.

1st. Who is the stem of Jessee spoken of in the 1st. 2d. 3d. 4th. and 5th. verses of the 11th. Chap. of Isiah.

Ans. Verely thus saith the Lord It is Christ

Q. 2d. What is the Rod spoken of in the 1st. verse of the 11th. verse Chap. that shoud come of the stem of Jessee.

Ans. Behold thus saith <​the Lord​> it is a servant in the hands of Christ who is partly a decendant of Jessee as well as of Ephraim or of the house of Joseph, on whome thare is Laid much power.

Qest 3d. What is the Root of Jessee spoken of in the 10th. verse of the 11th. Chap.

Ans. Behold thus saith the Lord; it is a decendant of Jessee as well as of Joseph unto whom rightly belongs the Priesthood and the kees of the Kingdom for an ensign and for the geathering of my people in the Last day.—

Questions from Elias Higbee regarding the Book of Isaiah
Questions by Elias Higby [Higbee]
1st. Q. What is ment by the command in Isiah 52d. chap 1st. verse which saith Put on thy strength O Zion and what people had I[sa]iah referance to

A. He had reference to those whome God should call in the last day’s who should hold the power of Priesthood to bring again 
zion and the redemption of Israel. And to put on her strength is to put on the authority of the priesthood which she (zion) has a right to by lineage: Also to return to that power which she had lost

Ques. 2d. What are we to understand by zions loosing herself from the bands of her neck 2d. verse.

A. We are to understand that the scattered remnants are exorted to to return to the Lord from whence they have fal[l]en which if they do the promise of the Lord is that he will speak to them or give them revelation See 6th. 7th. and 8th. verses The bands 
of her neck are the curses of God upon her or the remnants of Israel in their scattered condition among the Gentiles.