D&C 117 — Featured version copied between 8 July 1838 and 27 May 1840; handwriting of Edward Partridge; two pages; Revelations Collection, CHL

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Featured version copied between 8 July 1838 and 27 May 1840; handwriting of Edward Partridge; two pages; Revelations Collection, CHL' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09).
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Far West July 8, 1838 Prest. William Marks and Bishop N K Whitny Newel K. Whitney Gnt. We send you by the hand of br Oliver Granger a revelation recd this morning which reads as follows

1
Verily thus saith the Lord unto my servants Wm Marks & N K Whitny let them settle up their businss speedily & Journy from the Land of Kirtland before me I the Lord sendeth snow again upon the ground,
2
Let them awake & arise & come forth & not tarry for I the Lord commandeth it.
3
Therefor if they tarry it shall not be well with them.
4
Let them repent of all their sins & of all their covetous desires before me saith the Lord, For what is property unto me Saith the Lord.
5
Let the properties of Kirtland be turned out for debts debt saith the Lord. Let them go saith the Lord & whatsoever remaineth let it remain in your hands saith the Lord.
6
For have I not the fowls of Heaven & also the fish of the sea & the beasts of the mountains, Have I not made the earth. do I not hold the destinies of all the armies of the nations of the earth.
7
Therefore will I not make the solitary places to bud & to blossom & to bring forth in abundance saith the Lord.
8
Is there not room enough upon the mountains of Adam ondi awman & upon the plains of Obashinihah or Oleashinihah or in the Land of where Adam dwelt that you should not covet that which is but the drop & neglect the more weighty matters—
9
Therefore come up hither unto the Land of my people even Zion—
10
Let my servt. Wm marks be faithful over a few things & he shall be ruler of over many things— Let him preside in the midst of my (blank or omited) in the city Far West & let him be blessed with the blessings of my people
11
Let my Servt. N K Whitny be ashamed of the Nicholatins & of all their secret abominations & of all his littleness of soul before me saith the Lord & come up unto the Land of Adam ondi awman & be a Bishop unto my people saith the Lord, Not in name Name but in deed saith the Lord—
12
And again verily I say unto you I remember my servt, Oliver Granger behold verily I say unto him that his name shall be had in sacred remembrence from generation to generation for ever & ever saith the Lord.
13
Therefore let him Contend earnestly for the redemption of the first presidency of my church saith the Lord (over) and when he falls he shall rise again, for his sacrafice shall be more sacred to me than his increase saith the Lord.
14
Therefor let him come up hither speedily unto the land of Zion & in due time he shall be made a merchant unto my name saith the Lord for the benifit of my people—
15
Therefore let no man let no man despise my servt. oliver Granger but the blessings of my people be on him forever & ever—
16
And again verily I say unto you let all my Servts. in the land of Kirtland remember the Lord their god & mine house also to preserve it holy & to overthrow the money changers in mine own due time saith the Lord
17
By this you will understand the will of the Lord concerning you & will doubtless act accordingly— It would be wisdom for all the Saints that Come this Summer to come & make an effort to do so as soon it will be better for them If they cannot sel their property let them turn it out on the debts & when the Lord lift us all up they will rise with the rest, but let none think to get property whenever they get Come here for there is none for them at present but there will be— There is a note in the hands of Eth◊◊ Spencer it was money borrowd from a man by the name of Colgrove, to put into the Bank if it is possible turn out property to satisfy it, as Spencer is almost dead about it— There need be no fear in the saints coming up here there are provisions or will be in great abundance of all kinds indeed there is a plenty now neither has there been a scarcity at any time since we come We leave you in the hands of the Lord asking the blessings of salvation to rest upon you Yor. brethn. in Christ Jesus Sigd. (Sidney Rigdon (Joseph Smith Jr (Hyrum Smith
