Discourse, 6 May 1838

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-6-may-1838/1
Date: May 6, 1838
Handwriting: Handwriting of George W. Robinson

JS, Discourse, , Caldwell Co., MO, 6 May 1838. Featured version transcribed [ca. 6 May 1838] in JS, Journal, Mar.–Sept. 1838, p. 38; handwriting of ; CHL. Includes use mark. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, Mar.–Sept. 1838.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

In worship meetings held in , Missouri, on Sunday, 6 May 1838, JS delivered two discourses, the first of which is featured here. Both discourses were summarized by in the 6 May entry he made in JS’s journal. In reporting on the first discourse, Robinson apparently attempted to capture some of JS’s words. According to the summary of this discourse, JS advised the Saints against forming hasty judgments. This instruction was apparently motivated in part by a speech that an office-seeking politician had delivered to church members the previous day. Robinson provided less detail about the content of the second discourse, stating only that JS “dwelt some upon the Subject of Wisdom, & upon the . &c.” Robinson noted that JS delivered the second discourse in “the after part of the day,” suggesting that JS gave the first discourse in the morning. Robinson likely attended JS’s morning discourse and reported on it from personal observation—his general method for making entries in the journal. He made daily entries in the journal from late April through mid-May, suggesting that he inscribed this report of JS’s discourses on or within a few days after 6 May 1838.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

This day, President Smith. delivered a discourse. to the people. Showing, or setting forth the evils that existed, and would exist, by reason of hasty Judgement or dessisions upon any subject, given by any people. or in judgeing before they hear both sides of the question, He also cautioned them against men men, who should come here whining and grouling about their money, because they had helpt the saints and bore some of the burden with others. and thus thinking that others, (who are still poorer and who have still bore greater burden than themselves) aught to make up their loss &c. And thus he cautioned them to beware of them for here and there they through [throw] out foul insinuations, to level as it were a dart to the best interests of the , & if possible to destroy the Characters of its He also instructed the Church, in the mistories of the Kingdom of God; giving them a history of the Plannets &c. and of Abrahams writings upon the Plannettary System &c. [p. 38]