D&C 119

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/revelation-8-july-1838-c-dc-119/1

Revelation, Far West , Caldwell Co., MO, 8 July 1838. Featured version copied [ca. 8 July 1838];
handwriting of Edward Partridge ; one page; Revelations Collection, CHL. Includes docket. One leaf
measuring 10⅛ × 7¾ inches (26 × 20 cm). The top and left edges have the square cut of manufactured
paper, while the bottom and right edges are unevenly cut. The document was folded for filing, and it
was docketed with “tithing”, apparently by Edward Partridge . The document was later docketed with
“July 1838” in graphite in unidentified handwriting. Separations at folds have been repaired. The
Historical Department of the LDS church cataloged this version of the revelation in the Revelations
Collection in 1983. 1 Best, Christy. “Register of the Revelations Collection in the Church Archives,
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,” July 1983. CHL.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On Sunday, 8 July 1838, JS dictated five revelations, each of which concerned church leadership or
finances; one of these revelations outlined a plan for raising church revenue. The subject of church
finances was not new to the Saints. From the time the church was established, JS dictated
revelations and instituted programs related to economic and social concerns. An 1831 revelation on
“the Laws of the Church of Christ” directed the Latter-day Saints to consecrate their property to
the church bishop and then manage stewardships of property or other responsibilities assigned to
them. 1 Church members attempted to follow this program of consecration and stewardship in Jackson
County , Missouri, but their attempts ended when they were driven out of the county in 1833. 2 Cook,
Lyndon W. Joseph Smith and the Law of Consecration. Provo, UT: Grandin Book, 1985. In the early and
mid-1830s, JS and other church leaders in Ohio engaged in a number of business and banking ventures,
most of which ultimately failed. 3 Parkin, Max H. “ Joseph Smith and the United Firm: The Growth and
Decline of the Church’s First Master Plan of Business and Finance, Ohio and Missouri, 1832–1834 .”
BYU Studies 46, no. 3 (2007): 5–66. The troubled situation of church finances was compounded by the
nationwide panic of 1837 and the ensuing economic recession. 4 Latter Day Saints’ Messenger and
Advocate. Kirtland, OH. Oct. 1834–Sept. 1837. Lepler, Jessica M. The Many Panics of 1837: People,
Politics and the Creation of a Transatlantic Financial Crisis. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 2013. During this period, JS and Sidney Rigdon incurred several thousand dollars of debt. 5
In the latter half of 1837, the bishops in Missouri and Kirtland , Ohio, took new steps to address
the church’s financial problems. In September, the church published an appeal from Bishop Newel K.
Whitney and his counselors in Kirtland, calling on church members everywhere to “bring their tithes
into the store house ” to relieve church debts and to help establish the community of Saints in
Missouri. 6 To the Saints Scattered Abroad, the Bishop and His Counselors of Kirtland Send Greeting.
[Kirtland, OH: 18 Sept. 1837]. CHL. Latter Day Saints’ Messenger and Advocate. Kirtland, OH. Oct.
1834–Sept. 1837. While this general request did not include recommended donation amounts, in
December 1837 a committee composed of Edward Partridge , the bishop of Zion ; Isaac Morley , the
first counselor in the bishopric ; and John Corrill , the appointed “keeper of the Lord’s
Storehouse,” 7 proposed that every head of household be asked to annually donate a certain
percentage of net worth, with the percentage based on church needs for the year. To cover
anticipated church expenses for 1838, the committee proposed a “tithing” of 2 percent. The committee
believed that such a program would “be in some degree fullfilling the law of consecration.” 8 In
February 1838, when Thomas B. Marsh , the pro tempore president of Zion, wrote to JS about coming to
Missouri, Marsh reported that the Saints there “seem to wish to have the whole law of God lived up
to; and we think that the church will rejoice to come up to the law of consecration, as soon as
their leaders shall say the word, or show them how to do it.” 9 In April a revelation called for Far
West , Missouri, to be built up as a city of Zion with a temple but directed the presidency not to
go into debt to build the Far West temple as they had when building the Kirtland temple . 10 The
issue of JS’s and Rigdon ’s debts was raised again in May when the two petitioned the high council
to obtain compensation for their services in the church. 11 The Return. Davis City, IA, 1889–1891;
Richmond, MO, 1892–1893; Davis City, 1895–1896; Denver, 1898; Independence, MO, 1899–1900. Debts
continued to loom over JS and Rigdon, and on 8 July 1838 the first payment on a debt totaling over
$4,000 was due to JS’s attorneys. 12 That day, JS dictated this revelation on tithing—apparently in
a church leadership meeting held in Far West . 13 This revelation was the third dictated that day
that George W. Robinson copied into JS’s journal. A copy of the revelation states that JS dictated
it in direct response to the petition, “Lord, show unto thy servents how much thou requirest of the
properties of thy people for a Tithing?” 14 The resulting revelation called for the Latter-day
Saints to consecrate all of their surplus property and thereafter to pay “one tenth of all their
interest annually.” Robinson, who was present at the leadership meeting, may have transcribed the
revelation as JS dictated it. The revelation was read later that day to a congregation of Latter-day
Saints. Over the next few weeks, church members responded to the revelation by consecrating surplus
property. According to the 27 July entry in JS’s journal, “Some time past the bretheren or saints
have come up day after day to consecrate, and to bring their offerings into the store house of the
lord, . . . They have come up hither Thus far, according to the ord[e]r of the Dan-Ites.” 15
Officers in the Danite society had attended the leadership meeting in which JS apparently dictated
this revelation, and members of the society were now helping gather the consecrated goods. 16 The
success in collecting surplus property apparently did not last long. John Corrill , the keeper of
the storehouse, recounted in 1839 that the Danites “set out to enforce the law of consecration; but
this did not amount to much.” 17 Peck, Reed. Letter, Quincy, IL, to “Dear Friends,” 18 Sept. 1839.
Huntington Library, San Marino, CA. Swartzell, William. Mormonism Exposed, Being a Journal of a
Residence in Missouri from the 28th of May to the 20th of August, 1838, Together with an Appendix,
Containing the Revelation concerning the Golden Bible, with Numerous Extracts from the ‘Book of
Covenants,’ &c., &c. Pekin, OH: By the author, 1840. Brigham Young , who was serving in the pro
tempore church presidency in Zion , recollected several years later that church members were sparing
in what they considered surplus property. 18 Journal of Discourses. 26 vols. Liverpool: F. D.
Richards, 1855–1886. Robinson made a copy of the revelation in JS’s journal, apparently sometime in
mid- or late July 1838. 19 The revelation was also copied by other church leaders: Newel K. Whitney
made one copy, and Edward Partridge made at least two copies. 20 Revelations Collection, 1831–ca.
1844, 1847, 1861, ca. 1876. CHL. MS 4583 . A comparison of the copies by Robinson, Whitney, and
Partridge suggests that one of Partridge’s copies most closely represents the wording of the
original revelation. This version is featured here. 21 Partridge was present when the revelation was
dictated and probably made the featured copy shortly thereafter; the latest possible copying date is
27 May 1840, the day he died.

═══ REVELATION TEXT ═══

Far West July 8th 1838
A revelation
Question O Lord show unto thy servants how much thou requirest of the properties of thy people for a tithing?

Verily thus saith the Lord, I require all their surplus property, to be put into the hands of the bishop of my church of Zion

for the building of mine house and for the laying 
the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood and 
for the debts of the presidency of my church

and this shall be the beginning of the tithing of my people

and after that those who have been thus been tithed shall pay one tenth of all their interest annually and this shall be a standing law unto them forever for 
my holy priesthood saith the Lord.

Verily I say unto you it shall come to pass that all those who gather unto the land of Zion shall be tithed of their surplus properties and shall observe this law or they shall not be found worthy to abide among you

and behold I say unto you if my people observe 
not this law to keep it holy and by this law sanctify the land of Zion unto me that my statutes and <​my​> judgements may be kept thereon that it may be most holy, behold verily I say unto you it shall not be a land of Zion unto you[.]

And this shall be an ensample unto all the stakes 
of Zion even so amen