Discourse, 12 August 1838

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-12-august-1838/1
Date: August 12, 1838
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, , Daviess Co., MO, 12 Aug. 1838. Featured version published [ca. May 1840] in William Swartzell, Mormonism Exposed, pp. 32–33. For more complete source information, see the source note for Discourse, 29 July 1838.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 12 August 1838, JS delivered a discourse at a Sunday worship service held at , Daviess County, Missouri, regarding the troubles between the and other Missourians. The members of the stopped at Adam-ondi-Ahman on their way from , Caldwell County, Missouri, to the “” in , where they intended to counsel with a company of Canadian Saints who settled there instead of at Adam-ondi-Ahman, where they had been instructed to settle.
This stop in occurred amid the increasing turmoil between the Saints and other residents of . On 30 July, non-Mormons held a public meeting at Carrollton, the seat of Carroll County, and passed resolutions calling for the Saints to leave the county. Those at the meeting also sent a committee to , a settlement in the county, to demand that the Saints leave by 7 August. On that day, the committee reported in another public meeting at Carrollton that the Saints were determined to stay and that “they would apply to the for assistance” if needed. In response to this report, the citizens of Carroll County began seeking allies in neighboring counties and requesting “aid to remove Mormons, abolitionists, and other disorderly persons” from the county.
Troubles were also increasing in , Missouri. On 6 August, a riot broke out at the election poll in , and on 8 August, Latter-day Saints confronted , a justice of the peace, who was reportedly organizing anti-Mormon vigilantes to take action against the Saints. Rumors of conflict with the Latter-day Saints spread to the surrounding counties, fueling fears that the Saints were in rebellion against the . On 9 and 10 August, residents at public meetings in , Ray County, called for an investigation of the confrontation with Black and for a peaceful resolution of hostilities. The Richmond citizens appointed a three-man committee to travel to Daviess and counties and gather information regarding the conflict. According to , a Latter-day Saint living in , on 11 August the committee traveled to the town, where JS had stopped on his way to the Canadian Saints’ settlement. The committee, JS, and about one hundred other Latter-day Saints met “at the usual place of meeting for worship”—likely the grove near ’s first cabin. The committee then went to Wight’s unfinished home and met privately with Wight and JS.
The next day, JS addressed a congregation of Saints in . According to , the meeting was held in the morning in the same place that JS met the committee the day before; it is unclear whether Swartzell was referring to the public meeting grounds or to ’s unfinished home, where JS had preached two weeks earlier. JS gave a discourse in which he exhorted the Saints in Adam-ondi-Ahman “to be of good cheer,” assuring them that they were not in danger but also admonishing them to be prepared to travel to in Carroll County to rescue the Saints living there.
apparently recorded the discourse in his journal within a few days after JS gave the sermon. While the majority of Swartzell’s account is a summary, he also captured, or attempted to capture, some of JS’s words. Swartzell’s original journal is apparently not extant; however, after he left the church, he published the journal as part of an anti-Mormon exposé.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

The Prophet exhorted the [p. 32]

brethren to be of good cheer, and not to be “scared at trifles,” “that he would tell them when danger was near—that at present he did not even anticipate such a thing—for us to hold ourselves in readiness at a moment’s warning, well armed and equipped, to go down to Carroll county and rescue , who is in a suffering condition; and that they must expect to endure trials there.” [p. 33]