Discourse, between circa 26 June and circa 4 August 1839–B, as Reported by William Clayton

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-between-circa-26-june-and-circa-4-august-1839-b-as-reported-by-william-clayton/1
Date: August 4, 1839
Handwriting: Handwriting of L. John Nuttall

JS, Discourse, [, Lee Co., Iowa Territory, or , Hancock Co., IL], [between ca. 26 June and ca. 4 Aug. 1839]. Version from report copied [1880] in L. John Nuttall, Notebook, pp. 26–28; handwriting of L. John Nuttall; L. John Nuttall, Papers, BYU.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Disocurse, between ca. 26 June and ca. 4 Aug. 1839–B, as Reported by Willard Richards.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Behold a sower went forth to sow &c.
Our Savior is the sower— the people are the world— the harvest is the end of the world— the reapers are the angels. The end of the world is not come consequently the harvest cannot come without angels. The Son of man is to send forth his angels. The Son of man says that the Saints shall judge the world and angels. God has revealed himself. When they come up before God they will be asked, did this angel perform this or that, that he was sent to do, if not they will be judged— the world judged.
Some fell among thorns, &c. God sows— the enemy comes and sows parties, division, heresies,— shall we kill them— No, not till harvest, the end of the world. [p. 26]

The Son of God will do as he ever has done from the beginning— send forth his angels. If the reapers do not come the wheat cannot be saved. Nothing but kingdom being restored can save the world. Like unto a treasure hid in a field— this figure is a representation of the kingdom in the last days. Michael, Adam, Noah— I am Gabriel,— well says I who are you, I am Peter the angel flying through the midst of heaven. Moroni delivered the Book of Mormon.
The Pearl of great price is the prepared for the Saints — sell all you have get purchase &c. What is the end of the world— the destruction of the wicked, the angels have begun to be revealed, they shall bind up the testimony. Like unto a Merchant man buying goodly pearls; a net that gathers [p. 27]

of every kind; the wheat gathered into the barn; the tares left on the field to be burned. The net gathers in of every kind. Those who hold were more concerned about their children than themselves it happens to be our lot to live in a day when this [takes] place. [p. 28]