Minutes and Discourses, 5–7 October 1839

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourses-5-7-october-1839/1
Date: October 5, 1839
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

General Conference Minutes, and JS, Discourses, , Hancock Co., IL, 5–7 Oct. 1839. Featured version published in Times and Seasons, Dec. 1839, pp. 30–31. For more complete source information, see the source note for Letter to Isaac Galland, 22 Mar. 1839.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 5–7 October 1839, JS presided over a general of the at , Illinois, that organized the church in the Commerce area. The conference was to convene at ’s home, as determined in a May 1839 general conference. JS’s journal noted that the number of attendees at the conference, the first general conference held at Commerce, was “very large.” By October 1839, the church had purchased several hundred acres of land in the vicinity of Commerce, as well as almost eighteen thousand acres across the in , Iowa Territory. In addition to addressing conference participants about the need for contributions to pay for this land, church leaders used the conference to organize the church in Commerce and , which were experiencing an influx of members. The conference established a in Commerce, complete with a , three , and a . The conference also established a in Iowa, and it designated the Commerce region as “a place of ” for church members.
In addition to conducting other church business, including performing and instructing the Saints, the conference addressed several disciplinary matters involving church members. One of these issues pertained to the cases of and , two of the , who had been “suspended from exercising the functions of their office” at the 4–5 May 1839 general conference until they could personally appear “before the next general conference of the church to give an account of their conduct.” The conference also voted to publish a new edition of the church’s hymnbook to replace an unauthorized edition published by , a church member in .
According to JS’s journal, “a great deal of business was transacted and great instruction given.” Elizabeth Haven, a church member living in , Illinois, who heard reports about the conference, declared that JS was “filled with the Spirit” at the meeting and that “great union” existed among the Saints. The minutes of the meeting featured here were published in the December 1839 issue of the Times and Seasons, the newspaper the church had recently begun publishing in . Sometime after 28 July 1840, a copy of the minutes was recorded in JS Letterbook 2, likely using the Times and Seasons version as the source. Another copy was recorded in the letterbook sometime on or after 15 December 1840. This latter copy appears to be a more polished version of the published minutes and includes information not in the minutes featured here; these additions are identified in the notes.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Proceedings of the general , held at , Hancock County, Illinois, on Saturday the 5th day of October, 1839.
The meeting was opened by prayer, by Joseph Smith Jr. after which he was appointed President and , Clerk of the Conference, by the unanimous voice of the meeting.
The President then spoke at some length upon the situation of the , the difficulties they had had to contend with, and the manner in which they had been led to this place; and wished to know the views of the brethren, whether they wished to appoint this a or not, stating that he believed it to be a good place and suited for the saints.
It was then unanimously agreed upon, that it should be appointed a stake and a place of for the saints. The following officers were then appointed viz:
to be .
, to be of Middle Ward.
, to be bishop of Upper Ward.
to be bishop of Lower Ward.
, , , , , , , , , , , , to be ; who being respectfully called upon, accepted of their appointment.
It was then voted, that a of the Church be established on the other side of the , in the ; over which was appointed President:
, Bishop, and
, , , , , , Richard Howard, , , , , , Were elected high council.
, was elected to be continued as President of the .
to stand in his former office, and to be continued in his standing.
Letters were then read respecting the absence of Members, from ill health.
It was voted, that be suspended until he can have a trial, and in the meantime that he should not act as a President of a branch, or preach.
Voted, that John Daley, and retain their station in the church.
Voted that Ephraim Owen’s confession, for disobeying the be acepted.
Brothers,
William Allred, , Wm. B. Simmons, , Wm. W. Edwards sn. , Jabez Lake, , Benjamin Jones, , Henry Our Bough, , Reddin Allred, Esaias Edwards, , John Adams, Jesse M’Intire, Daniel Miller, , Simson I. Comfort, , , Artemus Johnston, William Hyde, Joseph G. Hovey, Andrew Hendry, , Redick N. Allred, Fields B. Jacamey, Eli Lee, Zadock Bethers, Hiram W. Maxwell, and Thomas S. Edwards, were appointed Elders of the church, who all accepted of their appointment with the exception of Thomas S. Edwards.
, was admitted into the church upon his confession.
Abel Casto was by the .
The meeting then adjourned until Sunday morning after which six were by Joseph Smith Jr.
Sunday morning October the 6th.
The Conference met pursuant to adjournment at 8 o’clock, A. M.
When,
, Reuben Foot, Orlando D. Hovey, , Sheffield Daniels, Albert Miner, David B. Smith, , , , Were appointed Elders of the church and were under the hands of , , and .
After some remarks from the Presi [p. 30]

dent respecting observing order and decorum during , , spoke as to the duties of , , [e]tc.
President J. Smith, Jr. then spoke as to appointing a and other matters connected with the well being of the . Having now got through the business matters, the President proceeded to give instructions to the Elders respecting preaching the gospel, and pressed upon them the necessity of getting the spirit, so that they might preach with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven, to be careful in speaking on those subjects which are not clearly pointed out in the word of God, which lead to speculation and strife.
Those persons who had been were then , and several children received blessings by Elders , and . Elder then addressed the meeting, on the subject of raising funds by contribution, towards paying for the lands which had been contracted for, as a settlement for the church, after which contributions were received for that purpose.
, was appointed to accompany Presidents J. Smith. Jr. and , to the City of .
The meeting then adjourned until Monday morning.
Monday morning October the 9th [7th].
Conference met pursuant to adjournment.
The President spoke at some length to the Elders, and explained many passages of scripture.
Elder , spoke on the subject of the resurection, and other important subjects. When he offered the following resolution, which passed unanimously:
Resolved, That a new edition of Hymn Books be printed immediately, and that the one published by , be utterly discarded by the church.
Elder Ezra Hayes was then put upon trial for teaching doctrine injurious to the church, and for falsehoods; which having been proved against him, his was withdrawn and he required to give satisfaction to those whom he had offended.
Charges having been prefered against , it was agreed that the case be handed over to the .
made application to be received into , and was voted into his former standing.
After having referred the business not gone into, to the high council; the president then returned thanks to the conference for their good attention and liberality; and having blessed them in the name of the Lord, the conference was dismissed.
The next conference was appointed to be held on the 6th day of April next. [p. 31]