Discourse, 2 July 1839, as Published in Clayton, Revelations

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-2-july-1839-as-published-in-clayton-revelations/1
Date: July 2, 1839
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, [, Lee Co., Iowa Territory], [2 July 1839]. Version published [ca. 1857] in [William Clayton], Revelations, no date, 8. The copy used for transcription is held at CHL.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 2 July 1839, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff–A.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

KEYS.
O ye and all , profit by this important , that in all your trials, troubles, temptations, afflictions, bonds, imprisonments and death, see to it that ye do not betray heaven; that you do not betray Jesus Christ; that you do not betray your brethren; that you do not betray the revelations of God, whether in the Bible, Book of Mormon or Doctrines and Covenants, or any others that ever was or ever will be revealed unto men in this world or in the world to come; yea, in all your kickings and flounderings see to it that you do not this thing, lest innocent blood be found in your skirts and you go down to hell. All other sins are not to be compared to sins against the Holy Ghost and proving a traitor to thy brethren.
A Final Key delivered by Joseph.— I will give you one of the keys of the mysteries of the kingdom. It is an eternal principle that has existed with God from all eternity, that that man who rises up to condemn others, finding fault with the church, saying that they are out of the way while he himself is righteous, then know assuredly that that man is on the high road to apostacy, and if he does not repent will apostatize, as God lives. The principle is as correct as the one that Jesus put forth in saying that he who seeketh after a sign is an adulterous person, and that principle is eternal, undeviating and firm as the pillars of heaven, for whenever you see a man seeking after a sign you may set it down that he is an adulterous man. [p. 8]