Discourse, between circa 26 June and circa 4 August 1839–A, as Published in Clayton, Revelations

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-between-circa-26-june-and-circa-4-august-1839-a-as-published-in-clayton-revelations/1
Date: June 26, 1839
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, [, Lee Co., Iowa Territory, or , Hancock Co., IL], [between ca. 26 June and ca. 4 Aug. 1839]. Version published [ca. 1857] in [William Clayton], Revelations, no date, 3–7. The copy used for transcription is held at CHL.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, between ca. 26 June and ca. 4 Aug. 1839–A, as Reported by Willard Richards.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

PRIESTHOOD.
The was first given to Adam; he obtained the first presidency and held the of it from generation to generation; he obtained it in the creation before the world was formed, as in Gen. i, 26—28; he had dominion given him over every living creature; he is Michael the Archangel spoken of in the scriptures —then to Noah who is Gabriel; he stands next in authority to Adam in the Priesthood; he was called of God to this office and was the father of all living in his day and to him was given the dominion. These men held keys first on earth and then in heaven. The priesthood is an everlasting principle and existed with [p. 3]

God from eternity and will to eternity, without beginning of days or end or years. The have to be brought from heaven whenever the gospel is sent. When they are revealed from heaven it is by Adam’s authority.
Danl. 7 speaks of the ancient of days; he means the oldest man, our Father Adam, Michael, he will call his children together and hold a council with them to prepare them for the coming of the Son of Man. He (Adam) is the Father of the human family and presides over the spirits of all men, and all that have had the keys must stand before him in this grand council. This may take place before some of us leave this stage of action. The Son of Man stands before him and there is given him glory and dominion—Adam delivers up his stewardship to Christ, that which was delivered to him as holding the keys of the universe, but retains his standing as head of the human family.
The spirit of man is not a created being, it existed from eternity and will exist to eternity; anything created cannot be eternal; air, earth, water, all these had their existence in an elementary state from eternity. Our Savior speaks of children and says their angels always stand before my Father.
The Father called all spirits before him at the creation of man and organized them; he (Adam) is the head and was told to multiply. The keys were given to him; he will have to give an account of his stewardship and they to him. The Power or authority of God. The priesthood was conferred through the laying on of hands upon adult male members of the church in good standing; no specialized training was required. Priesthood officers held responsibility for administering the sacrament of...
View Glossary
Power or authority of God. The priesthood was conferred through the laying on of hands upon adult male members of the church in good standing; no specialized training was required. Priesthood officers held responsibility for administering the sacrament of...
View Glossary
is everlasting. The Savior, Moses and Elias gave the keys to Peter, James and John on the mount when they were transfigured before him. The priesthood is everlasting, without beginning of days or end of years, without father, mother &c. If there is no change of there is no change of priesthood, whenever the ordinances of the gospel are administered, there is the priesthood. How have we come at the keys of the priesthood in the last days? They came down in regular succession. Peter, James and John had it given to them and they gave it up. Christ is the great High Priest; Adam next. Paul speaks of the church coming to an innumerable company of angels, to Cod the Judge of all; the spirits of just men made perfect; to Jesus the Mediator of the new covenant, &c., Heb. xii, 23. I saw Adam in the valley of . He called together his children and blessed them with a . The Lord appeared in their midst, and he (Adam) blessed them all and foretold what should [p. 4]

befal them to the latest generation: see D. C. sec. 8, p. 28, 29. This is why Abraham blessed his posterity. He wanted to bring them into the presence of God. They looked for a city, &c.— Moses sought to bring the children of Israel into the presence of God through the power of the , but he could not.
In the first ages of the world they tried to establish the same thing and then was Elias raised up who tried to restore these very glories but did not obtain them. They prophesied of a day when this glory would be revealed. Paul spoke of the dispensation of the fulness of times when God would gather together all things in one, &c. Those men to whom these have been given will have to be there, and they without us could not be made perfect. These men are in heaven but their children are on earth; their bowels yearn over us. God sends down men for this reason: Matt. xiii, 41, and the Son of Man shall send forth his angels, &c. All these authoritative characters will come down and join hand in hand in bringing about this work.
The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed; the mustard seed is small but brings forth a large tree. The fowls are the angels, the Book of Mormon, perhaps; thus angels come down, combine together to gather their children and gather them. We cannot be made perfect without them nor they without us; when these are done the Son of Man will descend, the Ancient of Days sit. We may come to an innumerable company of angels, have communication and receive instruction from them. Paul had these things; we may; and have the fowls of heaven lodge in the branches. The horn made war with the and overcame them, &c., until the Ancient of Days came and judgment was given to the Saints of the Most High from the Ancient of Days; the time came that the Saints possessed the kingdom.
It not only makes us ministers here but in eternity. Salvation cannot come without revelation; it is in vain for any one to minister without it. No man is a minister of Jesus Christ without being a prophet. No man can be the minister of Jesus Christ except he has the testimony of Jesus and this is the spirit of prophecy. Whenever salvation has been administered it has been by testimony. Men at the present time testify of heaven and hell and have never seen either; and I will say that no man knows these things without this. Men profess to prophesy; I will prophesy that the signs of the coming of the Son of Man are already com [p. 5]

menced; one pestilence will desolate after another; we shall soon have war and bloodshed; the moan will be turned to blood. I testify of these things and that the coming of the Son of Man is nigh, even at your doors. If our souls and our bodies are not looking forth for the coming of the Son of Man, and after we are dead if we are not looking forth we shall be among those who are calling for the rocks to fall upon us, &c
The hearts of the children will have to be turned to the fathers and the fathers to the children, living or dead, to prepare them for the coming of the Son of Man. If Elijah did not come the whole earth would be smitten. There will be here and there a , &c. Some may have cried peace, but the and the world will have little peace from henceforth. Let this not hinder us from going to the stake, for God has told us to flee, not dallying or we shall be scattered one here, another there. There your children shall be blessed and you in the midst of your friends where you may be blessed, &c.
The gespel net gathers in of every kind. I prophesy that that man who tarries after he has an opportunity of going will be aflicted by the devil. Wars are at hand; we must not delay, but we are not required to sacrifice; we ought to have the building up of as our greatest object. When wars come we shall have to flee to Zion; the cry is to make haste. The last revelation says ye shall not have time to have gone over the earth until these things come. It will come as did the cholera, war and fires burning, earthquakes, one pestilence after another, &c., until the Ancient of Days come, then judgment will be given to the Saints.
Whatever yon may hear about me or , take no notice of, for if it be a place of refuge, the devil will use his greatest efforts to trap the Saints. You must make yourselves acquainted with those men who like Daniel pray three times a day, to the house of the Lord. Look to the , &c. Every man who is afraid, covetous, &c., will be taken in a snare. The time is soon coming when no man will have any peace but in Zion and her stakes. I saw men hunting the lives of their own sons and brother murdering brother, women killing their daughters and daughters seeking the lives of their mothers. I saw armies arrayed against armies. I saw blood, desolations and fires, &c.
The Son of Man has said that the mother shall be against the daughter and the daughter against the mother, &c., &c. These [p. 6]

things are at our doors; they will follow the of God from city to city; will rage; the spirit of the devil is now enraged, &c. I know not how soon these things will take place and with a view of them shall I cry peace? No! I will lift up my voice and testify of them. How long you will have good crops and the famine be kept, I do not know; when the fig tree leaves, know then that the summer is nigh at hand. We may look for angels, &c.; but we are to try the spirits and prove them; it is often the case that men make a mistake in regard to those things. God has so ordained that when he has communicated, no vision is to be taken but what you see by the seeing of the eye, or what you hear by the hearing of the ear. When you see a vision, &c., pray for the interpretation; if you get not this shut it up. There must be certainty. An open vision will manifest that which is more important. Lying spirits are going forth in the earth. There will be great manifestations of spirits both false and true, &c.
Being born again comes by the Spirit of God through . An angel of Cod never has wings. Some will say that they have seen a spirit; that he offered them his hand but they did not touch it. This is a lie, for it is contrary to the plan of God. A spirit cannot come but in glory; an angel has flesh and bones, we see not their glory. The devil may appear as an angel of light; ask God to reveal it; if it be of the devil he will flee from you, if of God he will manifest himself or make it manifest. We may come to Jesus; he will know all about it; if he comes to a little child he will adapt himself to the language of a little child. There is no gold nor silver, &c.; it is false; all is plain in heaven; every spirit and vision or singing is not of God. The devil is an orator, &c.; he is powerful; he took our Savior to a pinnacle of the temple; kept him in the wilderness for forty days. The gift of discovering spirits will be given to the ; pray for him, &c. Speak not in the gift of tongues without understanding it or without interpretation. The devil can speak in tongues.— The adversary will come with his work; he can tempt all classes; can speak in English or Dutch. Let no one speak in tongues unless he interpret, except by the consent of the one who is placed to preside, then he may discern or interpret, or another may. Let us seek for the glory of Abraham, Noah, Adam; the have communion with these things; and then we shall be among that number when Christ comes. [p. 7]