Discourse, between circa 26 June and circa 4 August 1839–C, as Reported by William Clayton

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-between-circa-26-june-and-circa-4-august-1839-c-as-reported-by-william-clayton/1
Date: August 4, 1839
Handwriting: Handwriting of L. John Nuttall

JS, Discourse, [, Lee Co., Iowa Territory, or , Hancock Co., IL], [between ca. 26 June and ca. 4 Aug. 1839]. Version from report copied [1880] in L. John Nuttall, Notebook, pp. 28–32; handwriting of L. John Nuttall; L. John Nuttall, Papers, BYU.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, between ca. 26 June and ca. 4 Aug. 1839–C, as Reported by Willard Richards.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

It is the privilege of the children of God to come to God and get revelation. John 14 ch. 1. Let not your hearts be troubled &c There are a great many mansions in my father’s house, I am going to prepare one for you rather better than common. It is the privilege of the sons of God to inherit the same mansion &c. When any person receives a vision of heaven he sees things that he never thought of before. If we [p. 28]

should tell of different glories as Paul did— in my father’s house there are many mansions— every man that receives the gospel receives that inheritance that the Apostles did. Everyone that hath seen me hath seen my Father. He that believeth— any person that believes the works I do shall he do also, and greater works. The Father could not be glorified in the Son on any other principle than we coming to God— asking, receiving, heavens open, visions &c. They are done away because of unbelief. I will pray the Father and he shall send you another comforter to abide with you forever reach to things within the vail. Know that you are if you get it it will stand by you forever; how is it to be obtained? Keep my commandments and I will pray &c.
It is a privilege to receive the [p. 29]

Son of Man himself, he dwelleth with you and shall be in you. I will not have you commfortless. His spirit shall be in you. I will come to you, abide with you forever, you up to eternal life. Yet little while and you shall see me no more but ye see me. He that hath my commandments and keepeth them he it is that loveth me &c. I will manifest myself to him; if he does not he has not told the truth. I will put promise in your hearts that will not leave you, that will seal you up.
We may come to the general assembly and — spirits of just men made perfect; unto Christ. The innumerable company of Angels are those that have been resurrected from the dead. The spirits of just [p. 30]

men made perfect are those without bodies. It is our privilege to pray for and obtain these things. How will thou manifest thyself unto us and not to the world evidently knowing that it would be so that he would manifest himself. There was no cholera, no mobs, before this came. I told them that rejoice in mobs that they should have them. They have since come in torrents, they did not receive the testimony of the son of God. If a man love me he will keep my words and my Father will love him, and we both me and my Father will take our abode with him. There are certain characters that walked with God— saw him, conversed about heaven &c.; but the comforter that I will send (not the other comforter) shall teach you all thing— who? [p. 31]

he that loveth me &c. This shall bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever thing I have said unto you; he shall teach you until you come to me and my Father. God is not a respecter of persons; we all have the same privilege— come to God, weary him until he blesses you &c— all are entitled to the same blessings— Jesus, revelations just men, Angels &c., &c., not laying again the doctrine of Christ go on unto perfection. Obtain that holy Spirit of promise when you can be to eternal life. [p. 32]