Discourse, 2 July 1839, as Reported by William Clayton

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-2-july-1839-as-reported-by-william-clayton/1
Date: July 2, 1839
Handwriting: Handwriting of L. John Nuttall

JS, Discourse, , Lee Co., Iowa Territory, [2 July 1839]. Version from report copied [1880] in L. John Nuttall, Notebook, pp. 1–3; handwriting of L. John Nuttall; L. John Nuttall, Papers, BYU.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 2 July 1839, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff–A.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

.
O ye and all profit by this important [image of a key] that in all your trials, troubles, temptations, afflictions, bonds, imprisonments, and death, see to it that you do not betray heaven, that you do not betray Jesus Christ, that you do not betray your brethren, that you do not betray the revelations of God, neither in the Bible, Book of Mormon or Doctrine & Covenants or any other that ever was or ever will be given and revealed unto men in this world, or in the world to come, yea in all your kickings and flounderings see to it that you do not this thing, lest innocent blood be found in your skirts, and [p. 1]

you go down to hell. All other sins are not to be compared to sins against the Holy Ghost and proving a traitor to thy brethren.

A final [image of a key] delivered by Joseph Smith in the following language:
I will give you one of the keys of the mysteries of the kingdom, it is an eternal principle that has existed with God from all eternity: that, that man who rises up to condemn others, finding fault with the , saying that they are out of the way, while he himself is righteous, then know assuredly that that man is in the high road to apostacy and if he does not repent will apostatize as God lives. The principle is as correct as the one that Jesus put forth in saying that he who seeketh after a [p. 2]

sign is an adulterous person; and that principle is eternal, undeviating and firm as the pillars of heaven; for whenever you see a man seeking after a sign, you may set it down that he is an adulterous man. [p. 3]