D&C 123 — JS, Hyrum Smith, Lyman Wight, Caleb Baldwin, and Alexander McRae, Letter, Liberty, Clay Co., MO, to Edward Partridge and the church, Quincy, Adams Co., IL, ca. 22 Mar. 1839; handwriting of Alexander McRae, with insertion by JS; signatures of JS, Hyrum Smith, Lyman Wight, Caleb Baldwin, and Alexander McRae; nine pages; Revelations Collection, CHL.

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'JS, Hyrum Smith, Lyman Wight, Caleb Baldwin, and Alexander McRae, Letter, Liberty, Clay Co., MO, to Edward Partridge and the church, Quincy, Adams Co., IL, ca. 22 Mar. 1839; handwriting of Alexander McRae, with insertion by JS; signatures of JS, Hyrum Smith, Lyman Wight, Caleb Baldwin, and Alexander McRae; nine pages; Revelations Collection, CHL.' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09).
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

1
And again we would suggest for your concideration the propriety of all the saints gethering up the a knowledge of all the facts and suffering and abuses put upon them by the people of this state
2
and also of all the property and amount of damages which they have sustained both of character and personal Injuries as will as real property
3
and also the names of all persons that have had a hand in their oppressions as far as they can get hold of them and find them out.
4
and perhaps a committe can be appointed to find out these things and to take statements and affidafets and also to gether up the libilous publications that are afloat
5
and all that are in the magazines and in the Insiclopedias encyclopedias and all the libillious history histories that are published and that are writing and by whom and present the whole concatination of diabolical rascality and nefarious and murderous impositions that have been practised upon this people
6
that we may not only publish to all the world but present them to the heads of the government in all there dark and hellish hugh hue? as the last effort which is injoined on us by our heavenly. Father before we can fully and completely claim that promise which shall call him forth from his hiding place and also the whole nation may be left without excuse before he can send forth the power of his mighty arm.
7
It is an imperious duty that we owe to God to angels with whom we shall be brought to stand and also to ourselves to our wives and our children who have been made to bow down with grief sorrow and care under the most damning hand of murder tyranny and oppression supported and urged on and upheld by the influance of that spirit which hath so strongly rivited the creeds of the fathers who have inherited lies upon the harts of the children and filled the world with confusion and has been growing stronger and stronger and is now the verry mein main spring of all corruption and the whole Earth grones under the wait of its iniquity.
8
it is an iron yoke it is a strong band they are the verry hand cuffs and chains and shackles and fetters of hell
9
Therefore it is an imperious duty that we owe not only to our own wives and children but to the widdows and fatherless whose husbands and fathers have been murdered under its iron hand
10
which dark and blackning deeds are enough to make hell itself shudder and to stand aghast and pale and the hands of the verry devil tremble and palsy
11
and also it is an imperious duty that we owe to all the rising generation and to all the pure in heart
12
which there are many yet on the Earth among all sects parties and denominations who are blinded by the suttle craftiness of men whereby they ly in wait to decieve and only kept from the truth because they know not where to find it
13
therefore that we should waist and ware out our lives in bringing to light all the hidden things of darkness wherein we know them and they are truly manifest from heaven.
14
These should then be attended to with greate earnestness
15
let no man counts them as small things for there is much which lieth in futurity pertaining to the saint which depends upon these things
16
you know brethren that a verry large ship is benefeited verry much by a verry small helm in the time of a storm by being kept work ways with the wind and the waves
17
Therefore dearly beloved beloved brethren let us cheerfully do all things that lieth in our power and then may we stand still with the utmost asurance to see the salvation of God and for his arm to be revealed.
