Minutes and Discourse, 3–5 October 1840

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-3-5-october-1840/1
Date: October 3, 1840
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

General Conference Minutes, and JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 3–5 Oct. 1840. Featured version published in “Minutes of the General Conference,” Times and Seasons, Oct. 1840, 185–187. For more complete source information, see the source note for Letter to Isaac Galland, 22 Mar. 1839.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

JS presided over a general of the in , Illinois, from 3 to 5 October 1840. The conference originally was scheduled to begin on 2 October but was delayed due to inclement weather. Nevertheless, four to five thousand people attended the conference, according to estimates. One observer believed the conference was “the largest company of People that I ever saw together on a religious ocation [occasion].” The assembly likely met at the meeting grounds near ’s house in the southwest part of the Nauvoo peninsula. The conference discussed business related to responding to crime in the area; constructing a in Nauvoo; drafting a city charter; organizing church units and leadership in and , Ohio; and creating another committee to try to obtain redress for the Saints’ expulsion from .
One of the conference’s significant participants was , who had recently arrived in after corresponding with JS and in previous months. Although Bennett was a new convert, the conference placed a great deal of responsibility on him, especially by enlisting him to help obtain legal incorporation for the city of Nauvoo. Bennett held political clout in as the current quartermaster general of the Illinois militia and the former brigadier general of the Invincible Dragoons, a division of the Illinois militia. Hoping to capitalize on Bennett’s influence, the conference appointed him to support efforts to obtain a city charter for Nauvoo from the state legislature.
At the conference, JS spoke on a new church doctrine: members could be on behalf of deceased persons. JS had mentioned this concept on 15 August 1840 during a funeral sermon for . On that occasion, according to reminiscent accounts, JS read from 1 Corinthians 15 and promised Jane Harper Neyman, a woman in attendance who was grieving the death of her unbaptized son, that she “shou[ld] have glad tidings in that thing,” “that thing” meaning vicarious baptism. Although the following minutes of the conference do not preserve the details of JS’s instruction, two accounts confirm that JS provided the conference with additional guidance about baptism for the dead. Specifically, JS explained, “it is the privilege of this church to be baptised for all their kinsfolks that have died before this Gospel came forth; even back to their great Grandfather and Mother if they have ben personally acquainted with them.” The Saints were not to be baptized for their “acquaintances unless they [the deceased] send a ministering spirit to their friends on earth.” When someone was baptized on behalf of the deceased, the deceased would be “released from prison and they [the living Latter-day Saint] can claim them in the resurrection and bring them into the celestial kingdom.” JS may have been familiar with the entry on “Baptism for the Dead” in Charles Buck’s theological dictionary, which stated that it was a “practice formerly in use, when a person dying without baptism” would depend upon another to be “baptized in his stead; thus supposing that God would accept the baptism of the proxy, as though it had been administered to the principal.” In the first vicarious baptisms took place in the as early as 13 September 1840. According to , “During conference there were sometimes from eight to ten in the river at a time baptiseing” for the dead. The Saints may have performed baptisms while the conference took place because JS encouraged them to “liberate their friends from bondage as quick as posable [possible].”
served as clerk of the conference and took the minutes, which were then published in the October 1840 issue of the Times and Seasons.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Minutes of the general of the , held in , Hancock county, Ill. Oct., 3rd 1840.
The conference was opened by prayer by .
Joseph Smith jr. was then unanimously called to the chair, and , chosen clerk.
A letter from and and one from Elder were then read by the , which gave very satisfactory accounts of their mission.
On motion. Resolved, That a committee be appointed to such as have recommends to this conference for ordination, and that elders
, , , , compose said committee, and report their proceedings before the conference closes.
The president arose and stated that there had been several depredations committed on the citizens of , and thought it expedient that a committee be appointed, to search out the offenders, and bring them to justice.
Whereupon it was resolved, that,
Joseph Smith, , , , , , , compose said committee.
On motion. Resolved, that be appointed the general church clerk in the room of , who intends to remove to .
It having been requested by that the conference would appoint an elder to take charge of the church which he and had raised up in .
On motion. Resolved, that Elder , be appointed to preside over the church in .
The president then rose, and stated that it was necessary that something, should be done with regard to , so that it might be built up; and gave it as his opinion, that the brethren from the east might there, and also, that it was necessary that some one should be appointed from this conference to preside over that [p. 185]

On motion. Resolved, that be appointed to preside over the in , and that he choose his own councillors.
adjourned for one hour.
One o’clock P. M. Conference met pursuant to adjournment.
An opportunity was given to the brethren who had any remarks to make on suitable locations for .
Elder stated that it was the desire of a number of the brethren residing in to have a stake appointed at Mount Ephraim in that county, and stated the advantages of the place for agricultural purposes &c.
On motion. Resolved, that a stake be appointed at Mount Ephraim in .
There being several applications for the appointment of stakes, it was resolved that a committee be appointed to organize stakes between this and , and that
, and compose said committee.
The president then spoke of the necessity of building a “” in this place.
Whereupon it was resolved, that the saints build a house for the worship of God, and that , , and , be appointed a to build the same.
On motion. Resolved, that a commencement be made ten days from this date, and that every tenth day be appropriated for the building of said .
arose and stated that there were several individuals, who on moving to this place, had not settled with their creditors and had no recommend from the of the church were they had resided.
On motion. Resolved that those persons moving to this place, who do not bring a recommend, be disfellowshiped.
, M. D. then spoke at some length, on the oppression, to which the church had been subject, and remarked, that it was necessary for the brethren to stand by each other and resist every unlawful attempt at persecution.
Elder then addressed the meeting. Conference adjourned until to morrow morning.
Sunday morning. Conference met pursuant to adjournment, and was opened by prayer by .
The was then called upon to read the report of the presidency, in relation to the city plot. after which the president made some observations on the situation of the debts on the city plot and advised that a committee be appointed to raise funds to liquidate the same.
On motion. Resolved, that and compose said committee.
On motion. Resolved, that a committee be appointed to draught a bill for the incorporating of the town of , and other purposes.
Resolved, that Joseph Smith Jr. Dr. and , compose said committee.
Resolved that Dr. , be appointed delegate to , to urge the passage of said bill through the legislature.
President then rose and gave some general instructions to the church.
Conference adjourned for one hour.
One o’clock, P. M. Conference met pursuant to adjournment and was opened by prayer by Elder .
President Joseph Smith jr. then arose and delivered a discourse on the subject of for the dead. which was listened to with considerable interest, by the vast multitude assembled.
, from the committee, to draught a charter for the city, and for other purposes, reported the outlines of the same.
On motion. Resolved that the same be adopted.
then, made some very appropriate remarks on the duty of the saints in regard to those, who had, under circumstances of affliction, held out the hand of friendship, and that it was their duty to uphold such men and give them their suffrages, and support.
Elder then arose, and gave an account of the printing of another edition of the book of Mormon, and stated, that it was now nearly completed and that arrangements had been made for the printing of the hymn book book of doctrine and covenants, &c. [p. 186]

adjourned to Monday morning.
Monday morning, Oct., 5th. Conference met pursuant to adjournment and was opened by prayer by .
Elder after a few preliminary remarks, read an article on the , composed by Joseph Smith jr, after which,
delivered an excellent discourse on the same subject at some considerable length.
Conference adjourned for one hour.
During the intermission a large number were .
Two o’clock P. M. Conference met pursuant to adjournment.
Elder addressed the conference on the subject of baptism for the dead and other subjects of interest to the .
The president then made some observations, and pronounced his benediction on the assembly.
Dr. said that many persons had been accused of crime, and been looked upon as guilty, when on investigation it has been ascertained that nothing could be aduced against them,—Whereupon,
On motion; it was resolved that no person be considered guilty of crime, unless proved so by the testimony of two or three witnesses.
next brought before the conference the treatment the saints had experienced in , and wished to know, whether the conference would take any further steps in relation to obtaining redress.
On motion. Resolved that and be appointed a committee to obtain redress for the wrongs sustained in .
The committee on reported that they had ordained thirty nine to the ministry.
On motion. Resolved that this conference be dismissed, and that the next conference be held on the 6th day of April next.
JOSEPH SMITH jr., Pres’t.
, Clerk, [p. 187]