Discourse, 7 April 1840

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-7-april-1840/1
Date: April 7, 1840
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL], [7] Apr. 1840. Featured version published in “The Mormons for Harrison,” Peoria Register and North-Western Gazetteer, 17 Apr. 1840, [2]. Transcription from a digital color image obtained from the Library of Congress in 2016.
The 17 April 1840 issue of the Peoria Register and North-Western Gazetteer consists of four leaves; each leaf contains six columns. The copy used for transcription is bound in a volume with other issues of the newspaper.
Samuel H. Davis began publishing the newspaper around 1837. It was published weekly.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 7 April 1840, JS delivered a discourse at a general of the held in the , Illinois, area in which he recounted his November 1839 meeting with President in . JS had returned to the Commerce area in late February 1840, about a month before the discourse. He had previously given at least three other discourses recounting his meeting with Van Buren, two of which have extant records. A portion of JS’s 7 April discourse was reported by an unknown correspondent ten days later in the Peoria Register and North-Western Gazetteer under the title “The Mormons for Harrison.” Although the article states that JS spoke on 6 April—the first day of the general conference—the church’s official minutes indicate that he gave this discourse on 7 April.
Some of the details in this account differ from those in earlier accounts of JS’s meeting with . The chief difference is that in this account JS described two meetings with Van Buren in the President’s House on sequential dates; earlier accounts suggest that the parties only met once in the President’s House. JS’s description of Van Buren’s position, however, is consistent in all three accounts: Van Buren would not support the church’s petitioning efforts for fear of losing ’s support in the presidential election of 1840.
According to the Peoria Register, two church members who attended the conference— and Benjamin Dobson—vouched for the accuracy of the newspaper’s report of JS’s sermon. However, the author of the article (who was apparently offering his report secondhand) doubted JS’s claim that would openly acknowledge political motives for declining to help the Saints because such a statement was “not in accordance with his [Van Buren’s] non-committal character.” Instead, the author speculated that “this reason instantly struck the mind of Mr. Smith, and that he substituted his own belief for the direct avowel of the president.” Nevertheless, the author indicated that the effect of Van Buren’s alleged statement had been “to turn the Mormons, almost to a man, against Mr. Van Buren, and to make them equally unanimous for General [William Henry] Harrison.” Based on the praise the author then bestowed upon Harrison, it appears that the writer celebrated this shift in party allegiance that many church members experienced.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

He said that soon after reaching , he called on , and asked permission to leave with him the memorial with which he had been entrusted, at the same time briefly stating its contents. ’s manner was very repulsive, and it was only after his (Smith’s) urgent request that he consented to receive the paper and to give an answer on the morrow. The next day Smith again called, when cut short the interview by saying, “I can do nothing for you, gentlemen. If I were to, I should go against the whole state of , and that state would go against me at the next election.” Mr. Smith said he was thunderstruck at this avowal. He had always believed to be a high-minded statesman, and had uniformly supported him as such; but he now saw that he was only a huckstering politician, who would sacrifice any and every thing to promote his re-election. He left him abruptly, and rejoiced, when without the walls of the palace, that he could once more breathe the air of a freeman. [p. [2]]