Discourse, 5 February 1840

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-5-february-1840/1
Date: February 5, 1840
Handwriting: Handwriting of Matthew L. Davis

JS, Discourse, , 5 Feb. 1840. Featured version in , Letter, , to , , New York Co., NY, 6 Feb. 1840; handwriting of ; three pages; CHL. Includes address, dockets, and notation.
Bifolium measuring 10⅛ × 7⅛ inches (26 × 18 cm) and containing twenty-eight printed lines on each page. The document was trifolded in letter style and sealed with a red adhesive wafer.
It is unclear precisely when and from whom the Church Historian’s Office received the document. The docketing by suggests that the office may have possessed the document as early as 1845, when Bullock inscribed entries dated February 1840—including this discourse—for JS’s 1838–1856 history. In any case, the historian’s office had the letter by the time Bullock stopped working for the office in 1856. The letter appears in later office inventories, suggesting continuous institutional custody since 1845.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 5 February 1840, JS preached a discourse in in which he described his religious beliefs. The only extant record of this discourse is in a letter wrote to his wife, . Matthew Davis, a former Whig editor and printer and an Aaron Burr biographer, was present in the audience to hear JS preach. Though a resident, Davis was working in Washington as a political correspondent for the New York Courier and Enquirer and as a news correspondent on American affairs for the Times. His interest in hearing JS speak does not appear to have been linked to his profession but was rather, as he explained to his wife, born from a desire “to understand his [JS’s] tenets, as Explained by himself.” It is unknown in what venue JS delivered this discourse or how it was generally received by those in attendance. Later reminiscences claim that JS spoke frequently and in a variety of settings during his stay in the national capital and that he often attracted large crowds that included prominent political leaders.
According to this record of the discourse and contemporaneous letters written by JS and other leaders, rumors about JS and the church apparently had spread throughout the country, and JS wanted to emphasize that they were false. JS may have been responding here to specific allegations that George G. Cookman, a prominent Methodist clergyman, had recently preached against him. It is also possible that JS was addressing the public’s general misunderstandings of the church. JS and other church leaders hoped that preaching, coupled with letters published in eastern newspapers, would help to dispel falsehoods about the church’s teachings and win public support for their efforts to obtain redress and reparations from the federal government.
The discourse lasted over two hours as JS addressed many aspects of the church’s beliefs, including the attributes of God, the difference between omniscience and predestination, the divinity of Jesus Christ, the fall of Adam, the rejection of the doctrine of original sin, the Bible as scripture, the eternal nature of the soul, the finite nature of humankind’s postmortal punishment, and the divine origins of the Book of Mormon. Near the end of the discourse, JS denied charges that he held himself up to his followers as a savior or miracle worker.
indicated that he sent his report of the discourse in order to satisfy his and his ’s curiosity regarding JS and the church. Near the close of this letter, Davis wrote, “I have changed my opinion of the Mormons. They are an injured and much abused people. Of matters of Faith, you know I Express no opinion.” In addition to recounting JS’s discourse, Davis included a physical description of JS, writing that he appeared to be “from 40 to 45 years of age; rather above the middle stature, and what you ladies would call a good looking man” and that he dressed like “a plain, unpretending Citizen.” Davis also described JS’s comportment and speaking style, stating that JS was “not an Educated man” but “a plain, sensible, strong minded man.” Davis added that JS spoke “in a manner to leave an impression that he is sincere,” with “no levity—no fanaticism—no want of dignity in his deportment.”
The report of JS’s discourse featured here constitutes the bulk of ’s letter to his . The single paragraph that precedes Davis’s summary of JS’s remarks contains the aforementioned description of JS’s appearance, demeanor, and communication style. Two paragraphs follow the summary, in which Davis expressed his changed opinion of the Mormons and conveyed kind sentiments to his family. In a postscript, Davis added that JS “does not believe in infant baptism, sprinkling but in immersion, and eight years of age.”
It is unclear how sent the letter to his . He possibly dispatched the letter to by a private party because the letter bears no postmark. Mary Davis presumably received and read the letter before relinquishing possession of it. When and how it came to the Church Historian’s Office is also unclear. It is possible that she gave it to one of the many church missionaries who passed through New York during the 1840s and that this missionary then carried it to , Illinois.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

He commenced, by saying, that he knew the prejudices which were abroad in the world against him; but requested us to pay no respect to the rumors which were in circulation respecting him and his doctrines. He was accompanied by three or four of his followers. He said— “I will state to you our belief, so far as time will permit.”
I believe, said he, that there is a God, possessing all the attributes ascribed to him by Christians of all denominations. That he reigns over all things in Heaven and on Earth; and that all are subject to his power. He then spoke, rationally, of the attributes of Divinity, such as foreknowledge; mercy, &c &c
He then took up the Bible. I believe, said he, in this sacred volume— In it the Mormon faith is to be found. We teach nothing but what the Bible teaches. We believe nothing but what is to be found in this Book
I believe in the fall of man, as recorded in the Bible. I believe that God fore-knew every thing; but did not fore-ordain every thing. I deny that fore-ordain and fore-know is the same thing. He fore-ordained the fall of man: But all merciful as he is, he fore-ordained, at the same time, a plan of redemption for all mankind. I believe in the Divinity of Jesus Christ, and that he died for the sins of all men, who in Adam had fallen [p. [1]]

He then entered into some details, the result of which tended to shew his total unbelief of what is termed Original Sin. He believes that it is washed away by the blood of Christ, and that it no longer Exists. As a necessary consequence, he believes that we are all born pure and undefiled. That all children dying at an Early [age] (say eight years) not knowing good from ill, were incapable of sinning; and that all such assuredly go to Heaven.
I believe, said he, that a man is a moral, responsible, free agent, that although it was fore-ordained he should fall and be redeemed; yet after the redemption it was not fore-ordained that he should again sin. In the Bible a rule of conduct is laid down for him. In the Old and New testaments the law by which he is to be governed may be found. If he violates that law, he is to be punished for the deeds done in the body
I believe that God is Eternal. That he had no beginning and can have no End. Eternity means that which is without beginning or End. I believe that the Soul is Eternal. It had no beginning; it can have no End. Here he entered into some Explanations, which were so brief that I could not perfectly comprehend him. But the idea seemed to be that the Soul of man— the Spirit, had Existed from Eternity in the bosom of Divinity, and so far as he was intelligible to me, must ultimately return from whence it came
He said very little of rewards and punishments. But one conclusion, from what he did say, was irresistible. He contended throughout, that every thing which had a beginning must have an Ending; and consequently, if the punishment of man commences in the next world, it must, according to his logic and belief have an End
During the whole of his address, and it occupied more than two hours, there was no opinion or belief that he Expressed, that was calculated, in the slightest degree, to impair the morals of Society, or in any manner to [p. [2]]

degrade and brutalize the human species. There was much in his precepts, if they were followed, that would soften the asperities of man towards man, and that would tend to make him a more rational being than he is generally found to be. There was no violence; no fury; no denunciation. His religion appears to be the religion of meekness; lowliness, and mild persuasion.
Towards the close of his address, he remarked that he had been represented as pretending to be a Saviour, a Worker of Miracles, &c. All this was false. He made no such pretensions. He was but a man, he said— a plain untutored man; seeking what he should do to be saved. He performed no miracles. He did not pretend to possess any such power
He closed by referring to the Mormon Bible, which, he said, contained nothing inconsistent or conflicting with the Christian Bible. And he again repeated,
that all who would follow the precepts of the Bible whether Mormon or not, would assuredly be saved. Throughout his whole address, he displayed, strongly, a spirit of Charity and Forbearance
The Mormon Bible, he said, was communicated to him, direct from Heaven. If there was such a thing on Earth, as the Author of it, then he (Smith) was the Author; but the idea that he wished to impress was, that he had penned it as dictated by God. [p. [3]]