Discourse, circa 19 July 1840, as Reported by Martha Jane Knowlton Coray–A

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-circa-19-july-1840-as-reported-by-martha-jane-knowlton-coray-a/1
Date: July 19, 1840
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, ca. 19 July 1840]. Featured version copied [between ca. 19 July 1840 and 1844] in Martha Jane Knowlton Coray, Notebook, ca. 1840–1844, pp. [12]–[18]; and in Lucy Mack Smith, History, 1845, miscellaneous documents; two pages; handwriting of Martha Jane Knowlton Coray; CHL.
Small notebook, measuring 6⅛ × 4 inches (16 × 10 cm). Despite being commercially produced, the volume is no longer bound. The notebook as it exists today consists of ten leaves of paper in a single gathering, some of which have been folded in half. At least one leaf is missing from the gathering. The pages are lined with thin blue lines that have faded with age. The leaves show significant signs of aging; most have been stained and have browned with time. The majority of Coray’s entries are written in graphite, which has faded with age. A single page contains a few lines in black ink, and the first and last pages of the volume contain commercial printing that is not part of Coray’s entries. The notebook is a collection of notes covering JS’s July 1840 discourse and an undated meeting that appears to have been the October 1844 general conference of the church.
Coray maintained possession of the notebook until her death in 1881. Following her death, the notebook remained in her family, eventually coming into the possession of her descendant Inez Ruth Stevens Cooper. At some point, Cooper’s niece Nadine Cooper Boudrero procured the notebook. In 1997 Boudrero donated the notebook to the Church History Department.
One leaf of Coray’s notes on JS’s circa 19 July 1840 sermon was separated from the notebook and is now filed with miscellaneous documents in Lucy Mack Smith, History, 1845. The top left-hand corner of the leaf is missing, and the edges of the leaf bear signs of wear, including folds, small tears, and browning from age. Both sides of the leaf are inscribed in black ink. The leaf is filed with other miscellaneous and Martha Coray documents in the history.
This page and the other miscellaneous documents associated with Lucy Mack Smith, History, 1845, likely remained in Coray’s possession until her death in 1881 and were then transferred to her family’s custody. The collection of documents evidently came into church possession by the early twentieth century.
Note: The images of the notebook shown here have been enhanced using multi-spectral imaging (MSI) to make them legible.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

Martha Jane Knowlton Coray made two separate records of a discourse JS gave in , Illinois, likely sometime around 19 July 1840. The discourse covered the , the perils that the would one day face, the development of Nauvoo, and the construction of a there. In the discourse, JS explicated a parable of twelve olive trees included in a December 1833 revelation. JS also declared that the land of Zion covered all of North and South America and anywhere that members gathered. He counseled the Saints to gather to Nauvoo, where they would construct a temple, and stated that they would one day save the United States and its Constitution from ruin. JS finished the sermon by predicting a bright future for Nauvoo and declaring that the time would come when the city would serve as a center of education and spirituality, in large part because of the temple the Saints would construct.
Although Coray dated one of her accounts 19 July 1840, it remains unclear when JS delivered the discourse. There are no extant records that discuss a gathering on 19 July in which JS may have given it; however, 19 July was a Sunday, and JS could have delivered the sermon at a regular Sunday meeting. At the end of one of her reports, Coray noted, “On this day the of over which Father presided was publicly appointed.” Coray may have included this note to indicate that the discourse was given on the day that a stake in Macedonia was organized, but no record shows the appointment of the Macedonia stake (located in the vicinity of in eastern , Illinois) on 19 July. Rather, the creation of a stake in Macedonia, known as the Ramus stake, was authorized and officers for the stake were appointed when a letter from JS and was read at a meeting held on 9 July. On 15 July, Hyrum Smith attended another meeting in which the stake officers were . However, the designated officers did not include John Smith, who was not made in Macedonia until 1843. Given these facts, the discourse may have been delivered on 9 July or 15 July and misdated by Coray. At the very least, JS gave it before November 1840, when referred to some of its content in a letter he wrote to his brother .
Coray apparently took notes at the time JS gave the sermon. The first version of the sermon featured here may be Coray’s original notes because it contains mistakes, such as missing words and letters, consistent with someone taking hurried notes. However, the notes appear in a notebook containing only one other item: minutes of what appears to be the October 1844 general of the church. This suggests that Coray may not have recorded the notes until well after JS gave the discourse. At some point—probably during fall 1843 and possibly even as late as the 1850s—Coray recorded a more polished and coherent version of the sermon, likely based off these notes. This later version—also featured here—organized items in the discourse differently than the notes did and also included topics not present in the notes. Two other versions of the discourse exist, both of which appear to be later than and derivative from Coray’s two accounts.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

it is wisdom in God that the as fast as conveinient should come up and we should enter into as compact a city as possible. we are not greatly distressed nor ever will be— a appointed— this is the principle place of Therefore as many as can come let the Brethren begin to roll in like clouds we will sell you lots and if you cant pay for them you shall [have] them whosoever will come let them come and partake of the poverty of freely and those who partake of our poverty shall [be] [p. [12]]

greatly blessed yea exceedingly for if they come in times of prosperity will put on their long faced pharisaical visages and blow us up and this proclamation goes forth from this hour bring every thing you can bring and build the and we will have a tremenduous City which shall reverberate afar— afar— and we will have a great observatory great great high wacth tower then comes all the ancient records dig them up thus shall the poor be fed by the curious who [p. [13]]

where the is which the ene righteous will build up a place of safety for their children and those who do not come in due season shall scarce escape with their lives those that cease to be saviours of men they shall be troden under the feet of their enemies for their transgression instance The is the salvation of this country which is north and south America some consider the olive trees to be but one is not 12 some have a begun 12 olive Trees are 12 Stakes [p. [13[a]]]

the seed of 12 olive trees are scattered it wake up the nations— The nations will war with each other while the are building the 12 I had a vision on the other side of the river that my armies were about ne [me] and I ran from brethren— who were shooting at me swan swam the river and found safety on this side Go tell all my servants who are the Strength of my house &c this time this nation will be trembling then shall foreign Saints come and all the saints shall come [p. [13[b]]]

and fight for God. they shall come to the land of my vinyard Then will Kings queens rulers come and help build up reasoning cant help themselves—— therefore go to with your might build build and you shall inherit it long and be blessed and the rising generation shall awake the nations make kingdoms tremble and the earth shake to the centre and God will bless the great rulers and cast a vote against Jerusalem must be built up also before the Coming of Christ [p. [14]]

this will take near 60 years. all who can coolly and deliberately dispose of their property and come and give their property to the poor and worship God O bretheren come— I prophcy [prophesy] this state shall become greate and a mighty mountain— and this will be the greatest in the world. curse the man who says you are a mean man because you do not believe as I do— all liberal men o come up to and help us to build up the City of God— [p. [15]]

the oposition from without does not compare with that within Moses led the children of Israel. the calamatiyes which happened to them was in consequence of rebeling against moses— rbelious [rebellious] here also— when I disbelheve in Joseph I will ask God for another is God a monarch if you disbelieve an honorable way is to say I would rather be damned than to follow self exaltation first cause of sin— prayer— first thy kingdom come— thy will be done on earth as in Heaven— what would we do singing forever and ever ans.— starve to death the Kingdom— Of— God— is like purified Elements— like 1000ds and 1000ds Of worlds have been [p. [16]]

to effect the purifying is to pray for the Kingdom come &c forgive as we are forgiven God had no hand in putting men in prison for debt but devils incarnate— were the flame to roll as fast as we want it to it would crush half the before it touched the world— righteous principles— instanse— a man that has the Kingdom and its righteousness knows how to manage property what the do is by direction of the sectarians worship the 12 apostles— I don’t think that a man who says he will [p. [17]]

shall come forom [from] all parts of the world and I prophecy that pleasure parties come from to see ther mamoth and like Sheba— and schools houses and great men’s sons shall board here and crave the privelidges of educating there children here and then I prophecy shall the chink the money in their pockets, which they shall give [p. [18]]

And obligate myself to build as great a house as ever Solomen did if the will back me up— and it shall impoverish no one but enrich thousands The time comes when these Saints shall ride proudly over the mountains of and no gentile dog shall dare lift a tongue but shall lick up the dust of their feet in the [p. [1]]

name of Jesus May many here realised this and see it with their eyes I myself also is my prayer— Amen— [p. [2]]