Minutes and Discourse, 3–5 October 1840, as Reported by Robert B. Thompson

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-3-5-october-1840-as-reported-by-robert-b-thompson/1
Date: October 3, 1840
Handwriting: Handwriting of Robert B. Thompson

General Conference Minutes, and JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 3–5 Oct. 1840. Version inscribed ca. 3–5 Oct. 1840; handwriting of ; docket in handwriting of ; docket in handwriting of ; six pages; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL. Includes docket.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Minutes and Discourse, 3–5 Oct. 1840.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Minutes of the General of the . Oct 3. 1840
On Motion. Resolved that Pres Jos Smith J preside over the proceedings of this Conference and that Eldr act as Secratary—
The Conference was then opened by prayer by Pres ——
Two Letters having been handed in to to the Conference one from Elder and one from & — which were severally read by the ——
On motion— Resolved that a committee on be appointed to ordain those desireous of ordination and that—



compose said committee and report their proceedings to the conference before it closes.
The President then arose and stated that their had been Several depredations committed on the Citizens of this place, & that it was necessary that a committee be appointed to search out such characters and that
Joseph Smith Jr




—
compose said Committee——
That act as general Church Scribe in the room of .—
On Motion it was Resolved that Elder be appointed to take charge of the Church at agreeably to the request of .—

Octr. 3. 1840.
Minutes of conference in [p. [1]]

The president then rose and stated that it was necessary that some thing should be done in regard to and gave it as his opinion that the brethren from the East might there and that it was necessary that some one should be delegated to go to & take charge of the at that place—
On Motion resolved that Elder be appointed to preside over the Church in .
On Motion resolved that choose his own Councillors——
adjourned for one hour— The conference met pursuant to adjournment, when the president called upon those persons who had any remarks to make respecting the location of that there was oppertunity of doing so.
then rose and made a statement of the desire of a number of the brethren in in Mt Ephraim branch to have a Stake appointed there and stated the advantages of the place for agricultural purposes
On Motion Resolved that a Stake be appointed in at Mt Ephraim
On Motion that a committee be appointed to go and organize Stakes between this place and and that

&
compose said Committee
The president then rose and stated that it was necessary that a be appointed to Superintend the building of the on Motion, that and be appointed [p. [2]]

On Motion It was resolved that every tenth day be appropriated for the building of the .
That a commencement be made ten days from this day—
Pres spoke at some length on the conduct of individuals who on coming to this place did not settle with their creditors and protested against such conduct—
On Motion resolved, that such characters who do not bring a reccommend from the they left, that they be disfellowship’d
spoke at some length on the oppresion to which the had been Subject and remarked that it was now necessary for the brethren to stand by each other and resist every unlawful attempt at persecution
After a few remarks from Elder the meeting was adjourned
Sunday Morning Conference met pursuant to adjournment and was opened by prayer by Elder
The then read the report of the presidency respecting their proceedings in regard to the city plot.
The president then rose and spoke of the subject of the debts and thought it would be wisdom to appoint a committe to raise funds for the purpose of liquidating the debts on the City plot
On Motion, Resolved that a Committe be appointed to raise funds— and that

compose said Committee. [p. [3]]

On Motion, moved that a committee be appointed to draft a code of laws for incorporation of the City— and that R. B Thompson & & J Smith J compose said Committee
On Motion that some person be sent to to urge the passage of the bill—
On Motion that be appointed delegate to to press the progres of the bill through the Legislature
Presd then arose and gave some general instructions to the church—
adjourned for one hour
The Con was opened by prayer by Elder
Pres Smith then arose and spoke on the subject of being for the dead at considerable length—
from the Committee appointed to draw up a charter for the Town of reported the outlines of a charter— And spoke some on the duty of the in regard to friends who solicit our suffrages for office—
Elder then rose and gave a Statement respecting the printing another Edition of the Book of Mormon
Elder spoke on the same Subject—
The meeting was then adjourned until tomorrow morning, at 9 o’clock [p. [4]]

Monday. opened pursuant to adjournment and was opened by prayer by El
arose and said that the outlin of a bill for the City charter having been read yesterday that it was necessary to take the sentiment of the meeting on the subject
On motion resolved that the same be axcepted
The then arose and after a few prelimary observations read an article for the composed by Joseph Smith Junr.
then arose and spoke on the subject of the Priesthood at considerable length.
The Conference then adjourned for one hour—
Conference met pursuant to adjournment After Singing Elder made some remarks on the subjects of for the dead & the priesthood
President Jos Smith made some observations pronouncing his benedictions on the
said that many persons have been accused of crime, and have been looked upon as guilty when on investigation it was found that nothing could be adduced against them
On Motion resolved that no one be held as guilty, unless proved so by the testimony of Two Witnesses—
brot before the conference the subject of our treatment by the Missourians and wishd to know whither the conference would take any action on the subject
Resolved that & be a committee to seek obtain a redress of our grievances
On Mtn that Conference adjourn until 6th April 1841 [p. [5]]

Joseph Smith J. President
Clerk—

Minutes of the General in Octr 1840 [p. [6]]