Instruction on Priesthood, circa 5 October 1840

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/instruction-on-priesthood-circa-5-october-1840/1
Date: October 5, 1840
Handwriting: Handwriting of Robert B. Thompson

JS, Instruction on Priesthood, [, Hancock Co., IL], ca. 5 Oct. 1840; handwriting of ; ten pages; JS Collection, CHL. Includes dockets.
Ten leaves, each measuring 10 × 8 inches (25 × 20 cm). Eight of the leaves are green; two are yellow. The text was inscribed on the versos of blank forms, five of which bear certificates with the printed notation “Kirtland, [blank], 1837. Treasurer of the Kirtland Safety Society Anti-Banking Co. pay [blank] or bearer, [blank] dollars.” The versos of the other five leaves contain certificates with the printed notation “Kirtland, [blank] 1837. [blank] days after date, we jointly and severally promise to pay [blank] or order, [blank] Dollars, value received.” The leaves were folded for filing.
The document was docketed by , who began serving as a scribe to JS in 1843, and also by . It is listed in the Historian’s Office inventory, circa 1904. Between 1974 and 1984, it was included in the JS Collection (Supplement). The dockets and inventory suggest continuous institutional custody since the document’s creation.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

This instruction on was read by on 5 October 1840 during a morning session of the general held from 3 to 5 October in , Illinois. Thompson presented it as “an article on the priesthood, composed by Joseph Smith jr.” later remembered witnessing JS dictate the statement specifically for presentation at the October conference, meaning JS likely composed the document shortly before Thompson read it on 5 October. According to Coray, JS dictated it after unsuccessfully “examining or hunting in the manuscript of the new translation of the Bible for something on Priesthood.” Coray recalled that JS gave the instruction during a revelatory moment in which “the Spirit of God descended upon him [JS], and a measure of it upon me, insomuch that I could fully realize that God, or the Holy Ghost, was talking through him.”
This instruction built on earlier revelations and statements about the priesthood. Echoing an 1832 revelation, as well as instruction JS prepared with the probable assistance of in 1835, the document briefly described the two major divisions of the priesthood: the and the . In summer 1839, JS preached a sermon that covered a number of similar themes, discussing the division of time into and stating that Old Testament figures, such as Adam and Elijah, would help restore priesthood authority in a final dispensation in the last days. In that sermon, JS argued that the renewal of ancient ceremonies would accompany the restoration of priesthood authority. In this circa 5 October 1840 instruction, JS stated that even animal sacrifice, as practiced in the Old Testament, would be restored in the last days, in keeping with biblical prophecy.
JS also instructed the Saints on the doctrine of translation—a power that enabled individuals to live in a transformed state of being until the second coming of Jesus Christ and that he said belonged to the Melchizedek Priesthood. The doctrine of translation was not unique to JS and his teachings. The basic concept is articulated in the New Testament’s epistle to the Hebrews, which states that “by faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death.” According to contemporary Methodist theologian Adam Clarke, this passage teaches that Enoch “did not die: and that God took him to a state of blessedness without obliging him to pass through death.” JS diverged from such nineteenth-century theologians by teaching that translated beings served as “ministering angels Unto many planets” and by emphasizing these beings’ connection to the priesthood. In addition to these themes, JS discussed the patriarchal nature of the priesthood, something that had also been discussed in earlier revelations and instructions.
According to the minutes of the 3–5 October 1840 general conference, made a few remarks before reading the instruction, which was then followed by further statements on the priesthood by . Thompson served as scribe for the instruction. The version featured here is probably not the original draft of JS’s dictation, but it may have been the copy read at the conference.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

In order to investigate the subject of the so important to this as well as every succeeding generation, I shall proceed to trace the subject as far as I possibly can from the Old and new Testaments.
There are two priesthoods spoken of in the scriptures, viz, the Melchisadeck and the Altho there are two priesthoods, yet the Melchisadeck priesthood comprehends the Aaronic or Levitical priesthood and is the Grand head and holds the highest Authority which pertains to the priesthood— the of the Kingdom of God in all ages of the world to the latest posterity on the earth— and is the channel through which all knowledge, doctrine, the plan of salvation and every important truth is revealed from heaven. Its institution was prior to “the foundation of this earth or the morning stars sang together or the sons of God shouted for joy,” it is the highest and holiest priesthood and is after the order of the Son of God, and all other priesthoods are only parts, ramifications, powers and blessings belonging to the same and are held controlled and directed by it. It is the Channel through which the Almighty commenced revealing his glory at the beginning of the creation of this earth and through which he has continued to reveal himself to the children of men to the present time and through which he will make known his purposes to the end of time— [p. 1]

Commencing with Adam who was the first man whom is spoken of in Daniel as being “the Antient of days” or in other words the first and oldest of all, the great grand progenitor of whom it is said in another place he is michael because he was the first and father of all, not only by progeny, but he was the first to hold the spiritual blessings, to whom was made known the plan of for the Salvation of his posterity unto the end, and to whom Christ was first revealed, and through whom christ has been revealed from heaven and will continue to be revealed from henceforth. Adam holds the of the , i.e. the dispensation of all the times have been and will be revealed through him from the beginning to Christ and from Christ to the end of all the dispensations that have to be reveald
Ephesians 1st. chap 9 & 10 verses. [“]Having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he has purposed in himself that in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might together in one all things in Christ both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him” Now the purpose in himself in the winding up scene of the last dispensation is, that all things pertaining to that dispensation should be conducted precisely in accordance with the preceeding dispensations, And again, God purposed in himself that there should not be an eternal fulness until every dispensation should be fulfilled and gathered together in one [p. 2]

and that all things whatsoever that should be gathered together in one in those , unto the same fulness and eternal glory should be in Christ Jesus; therefore he set the to be the same for Ever and ever and set Adam to watch over them to reveal them from heaven to man or to send Angels to reveal them Heb 1 Chap. 16 verse. [“]Are they not all ministring spirits sent forth to minister to those who shall be heirs of salvation.” These angels are under the direction of Michael or Adam who acts under the direction of Christ
From the above quotation we learn that Paul perfectly understood the purpose of God in relation to his connexion with man, and that glorious and perfect order which he established in himself whereby he sent forth power revelations and glory. God will not acknowledge that which he has not called, ordained, and chosen.
In the beginning God called Adam by his own voice See Genesis 3 Chap 9 & 10 verses. [“]And the Lord called unto Adam and said unto him where art thou, and he said I heard thy voice in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked and hid myself.” Adam received commandments and instruction from God, this was the order from the begining: that he received revelations, Commandments, and ordinances at the begining is beyond the power of controversy, else, how did they begin to to offer sacrifices to God in an acceptable manner? [p. 3]

And if they offered sacrifices they must be authorized by . We read in Gen 4th chap. V.4 that [“]Abel brought of the firstlings of the flock and the fat thereof and the Lord had respect to Abel and to his offring.” And again Heb 11 chap 4 verse. [“]By Faith abel offered unto God a more excellent Sacrifice than Cain by which he obtained witness that he was righteous God testifying of his gifts and by it he being dead yet speaketh.” How doth he yet speak? Why he magnified the which was confired [conferred] upon him and died a righteous man, and therefore has become a an angel of God by receiving his [p. 4]

body from the dead, therefore holding still the of his and was sent down from heaven unto paul to minister consoleing words & to comnin [communicate] unto him a knowledge of the mysteries of Godliness and if this was not the case I would ask how did paul know so much about Abel and why should he talk about his speaking after he was dead. now that he spoke after he was dead must be, by being sent down out of heaven, to administer. This then is the nature of the , every man holding the of his dispensation and one man holding the presidency of them all even Adam. and Adam receiving his Presidency and Authority from Christ, but cannot receive a fulness, untill Christ shall present, the Kingdom to the Father which shall be at the end of the last dispensation—
The power, Glory, and blessings of the Priesthood could not continue with those who received only as their righteousness continued, for Cain also being Authorized to offer sacrifice but not offering it in righteousness, therefore he was cursed. It signifies then, that the must be kept in the very way God has appointed, otherwise their priesthood will prove a cursing instead of a blessing. If Cain had fulfilled the law of righteousness as did Enoch he could have walked with God all the days of his life and never faild of a blessing. Gen [blank] “And Enoch walked with God after he begat Mathusalah 300 years and begat [p. 5]

Sons and Daughters and all the days of Enoch were 365 years and Enoch walked with God and he was not for God took him.” Now this Enoch God reserved unto himself that he should not die at that time and appointed unto him a ministry unto bodies of whom there has been but little revealed, He is reserved also unto the of a — and more shall be said of him and terrestrial bodies in another treaties treatise
He is a ministring Angel to minister to those who shall be heirs of salvation and appered unto Jude as Abel did unto paul. therefore Jude spoke of him 14 & 15 verses in Jude. [“]and Enoch the Seventh revealed these sayings. Behold the Lord cometh with ten thousand of his saints” Paul was also aquainted with this Character and received instructions from him. Heb 11 Chap. 5 ver. [“]By Faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death, and was not found because God had translated him for before his translation he had this testimony that he pleased God. But without faith it is impossible to please God, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a revealer to those who diligently seek him,”——
Now the doctrine of translation is a power which belongs to this , there are many things which belong to the powers of the priesthood and the thereof that have been kept hid from before the foundation of the world. they are hid from the wise and prudent to be revealed in the last times. many may have supposed, that the— [p. 6]

doctrine of translation was a doctrine whereby men were taken immediately into the presence of God and into an Eternal fulness but this is a mistaken idea. There place of habitation is that of the order and a place prepared for such characters, he held in reserve to be ministring Angels Unto many planets, and who as yet have not entered into so great a fulness as those who are resurrected from the dead, See Heb 11 Chap part of the 35 verse “others were tortured not accepting deliverance that they might obtain a better resurrection” Now it was evident, that there was a better resurrection or else God would not have revealed it unto paul wherein then can it be said a better ressurrection? This distinction is made between the doctrine of the actual ressurrection and the doctrine of translation, the doctrine of translation obtains deliverance from the tortures and sufferings of the body but their existance will prolong as to their labors and toils of the ministry before they can enter in to so great a rest and glory, but on the other hand those who were tortured not accepting deliverance received an immediate rest from their labors, See Rev [blank] “And I heard a voice from heaven saying blessed are the dead who die in the Lord for from henceforth they do rest from their labors and their works do follow them”— They rest from their labors for a long time and yet their work is held in reserve for them, that they are permitted to do the same works after they receive a ressurection [p. 7]

for their bodies, but we shall leave this subject and the subject of the terrestial bodies for another time in order to treat upon them more fully
The next great grand patriarch who held the of the was Lamech See Gen 5 Chap 28 & 29 verses— [“]And Lamech lived 182 years and begat a Son and he called his name Noah saying this same shall comfort us concerning our work and the toil of our hands because of the ground which the Lord has Curst.” The priesthood continued from Lamech to Noah Gen 6 Chap 13 verse. [“]And God said unto Noah the end of all flesh is before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold I will destroy them with the earth,” thus we behold the keys of this priesthood consisted in obtaining the voice of Jehovah that he talked with him in a familiare and friendly manner, that he continued to him the keys, the covenants, the power and the glory with which he blessed Adam at the beginning and the offring of sacrifice which also shall be continued at the last time. for all the and duties that ever have been required by the priesthood under the directions and commandments of the Almighty in any of the , shall all be had in the last dispensations— Therefore all things had under the Authority of the Priesthood At any former period shall be had again— bringing to pass the restoration spoken of by the mouth of all the Holy prophets— [p. 8]

then shall the sons of Levi offer an acceptable sacrifice to the Lord See Malichi 3 Chap— 3 & 4 “And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver; and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord”
It will be necessary here to make a few observations on the doctrine, set forth in the above quotation, As it is generally supposed that sacrifice was entirely done away, when the great sacrifice was offered up— and that there will be no necessity for the of sacrifice in future; but those who assert this, are certainly not aquainted with the duties, privileges and authority of the . or with the prophets The offering of sacrifice has ever been connected, and forms a part of the duties of the priesthood. It began with the priesthood and will be continued untill after the coming of christ from generation to generation——
We frequently have mention made of the offering of Sacrifice by the servants of the most high in antient days prior to the law of moses, See [blank] which ordinances will be continued when the priesthood is restored with all its Authority power and blessings. Elijah was the last Prophet that held the of this priesthood, and who will, before the last dispensation, restore the Authority and deliver the keys of this priesthood in order that all the ordinances may be attended to in righteousness. It is true that the Savior had authority and power to bestow this blessing but the sons of Levi were too predjudiced
And I will send Elijah the prophet before the great and terrible day of the Lord &c &c.
Why send Elijah because he holds the keys of the Authority to administer in all the ordinances of the priesthood and without the Authority is given the ordinances could not be administered in righteousness. [p. 9]

It is a very prevalent opinion that the sacrifices which were offered were entirely consumed, this was not the case if you read Leviticus [blank] Chap [blank] Verses you will observe that the priests took a part as a memorial and offered it up before the Lord, while the remainder was kept for the maintenance of the priests— So that the offerings and sacrifices are not all consumed upon the Alter, but the blood is sprinkled and the fat and certain other portions are consumed These sacrifices as well as every belonging to the will when the temple of the Lord shall be built and the sons of Levi be purified be fully restored and attended to . all their powers raniffications [ramifications], and blessings— this ever did and will exist when the powers of the Melchisadc Priesthood are sufficiently manifest. else how can the restitution of all things spoken of by all the Holy prophets be brought to pass , It is not to be understood that, the law of Moses will be established again with all its rights and variety of ceremonies this has never been spoken off by the prophets but those things which existed prior to Mose’s day viz sacrifice, will be continued— It may be asked by some what necesssity for Sacrifice since the great Sacrifice was offered? In answer to which if Repentance and faith existed prior to the days of christ what necessity for them since that time——
The priesthood has descended in a regular line from Father to Son through their succeeding generations
See Book of Doctrine & Covenants [p. 10]