Discourse, 30 July 1840, as Reported by John Smith

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-30-july-1840-as-reported-by-john-smith/1
Date: July 30, 1840
Handwriting: Handwriting of John Smith

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL], 30 July 1840. Featured version copied in John Smith, Journal, July 1840–Mar. 1841, pp. [2]–[3]; handwriting of ; John Smith, Papers, CHL.
’s journal is a small notebook, measuring 7⅞ × 5⅞ inches (20 × 15 cm). The binding and cover are missing. The journal contains three loose leaves and a gathering of eight leaves that were trifolded for filing. The pages bear stains and smeared ink. The stains are most predominant in the top right-hand corners of the rectos. Tears in the final four leaves have resulted in the loss of some text. A later transcription of the diary into another volume does not include the missing portions, suggesting that the damage to this diary likely occurred early in the volume’s existence. Altogether, the journal comprises twenty-two inscribed pages, with some leaves evidently no longer extant.
The journal was in ’s possession from 1840 until his death in 1854. Following his death, the journal passed into the possession of his son , who evidently transferred it to the holdings of the Church Historian’s Office around 1858. The journal has presumably remained in continuous institutional custody since that time.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On Thursday, 30 July 1840, JS delivered a discourse at a meeting that was likely held on the grounds near ’s house in the southwest part of , Illinois. JS gave the sermon at the monthly fast and prayer meeting. According to a journal entry, the purpose of the meeting was to pray that God “would pasify the elements &c that health may be restored to the Saints.” Summer began the “sickly season” in which malaria—called the ague at that time—and other mosquito-borne diseases caused serious illness and death. In summer 1839, malaria devastated members living alongside the . Although the rate of disease had decreased as Nauvoo received an influx of immigrants (there were only two more recorded deaths in 1840 than there were in the previous year), the number of ill church members was still substantial. In this discourse, JS proposed several means for avoiding or treating disease, including fasting, praying, avoiding “evil speaking” of church members and leaders, receiving aid from the , and with oil those who were sick.
, then serving as of the church in , had traveled to two days earlier to meet with JS about organizing a in Iowa. He recorded these notes from the discourse in his personal journal. No other accounts of the discourse are extant.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Joseph said that inasmuch as the will leave of speaking Evil of one another and not speake Evil of the which is Speaking Evil of the archangel or the holy which he held and the Archangel and if the would ceace from these Bickerings and murmuring and be of one mind the Lord would Visit them with health and Every needed good for said he this is the Voice of the Spirit. furthermore if the Saints are sick or have Sickness in their Families [p. [2]]

and the do not prevail every family should [get] Power by fasting and prayer and with oil and continue So to Do their sick shall all be healed this also is the voice of the Spirit [p. [3]]