Discourse, 1 March 1840

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-1-march-1840/1
Date: March 1, 1840
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 1 Mar. 1840. Featured version published in “Correspondence of the Journal of Commerce,” New York Journal of Commerce, 27 Mar. 1840, [2]. Transcription from a digital color image obtained from the American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, MA, in 2015.
The 27 March 1840 issue of the New York Journal of Commerce contains four leaves measuring 28 × 22½ inches (71 × 57 cm). Each page is composed of nine columns. The copy used for transcription is bound in a large volume of issues of the newspaper.
In 1827 Arthur Tappan and his brother Lewis, along with Samuel F. B. Morse, founded the New York Journal of Commerce, with William Maxwell as editor. In 1829 David Hale and Gerard Hallock began publishing and editing the paper and continued to do so until 1849. Excepting Sundays, the paper was published daily.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 1 March 1840, JS preached a discourse in , Illinois, in which he recounted the events of his recent trip to the eastern . According to a letter summarizing the sermon, JS had returned from one or two days before this 1 March discourse. JS gave the discourse at a Sunday meeting that “the ‘’ and not a few of the ‘’” attended in a grove of trees near a ferry landing on the . Prior to speaking, JS was seated on a stage “with , , &c.” JS’s uncle was present at the meeting and recorded in his journal that the congregation exhibited great interest in JS’s remarks.
The version of the discourse featured here was written by an unidentified correspondent for the New York Journal of Commerce. According to the correspondent’s summary of the sermon, JS explained the reasons for his trip to and described his meeting with President . The description of the meeting in this discourse differs slightly from an earlier report of JS’s meeting with Van Buren that JS and made to and the . In this discourse, JS also discussed his preaching while in the eastern .
As an aside in another part of the letter, the correspondent noted JS remarking that the would incur divine displeasure and punishment if the nation continued to deny the petitions of the Saints for redress and reparations for losses sustained in . The correspondent mocked JS’s message, writing that this “impending danger” to the nation and the presence of “the ‘Prophet’” on the - border helped explain the “unparalleled emigration to Iowa from all parts of the United States” because these migrants might have believed that living near JS would protect them from potential calamity.
The letter summarizing the discourse was printed in the 27 March 1840 issue of the New York Journal of Commerce. No other summaries of the discourse are apparently extant.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

After engaging in prayer to the Most High, and reading a chapter of sacred writ, he commenced his discourse. He told his people he was their servant; that they had a right to know all the incidents of his journey; he would therefore endeavor to give them a minute account. He did not like to preach politics on the Sabbath; but he must free his mind,—must tell the whole story.
The object of his visit at , you well know, was to make application to Congress for relief, touching their troubles in . But to the discourse. He said, on his arrival in , he, with two of his , ( and ,) called on at the “White House” with a letter of introduction, and after making known to him the object of their visit, and soliciting him to help them, replied; “Help you! how can I help you? All would turn against me.” But they demanded of a hearing, and he, after listening a few moments to their tale of injured innocence, abruptly left the room. After waiting some time for his return, they were under the necessity of departing, disappointed, and chagrined.
He thought treated them with great disrespect and neglect. He said while they were with , a member of Congress waited upon him, and in conversation, among other things, told the that he (the ) was getting fat. The replied that he was aware of the fact; that he had to go every few days to the tailor’s to get his clothes let out, or purchase a new coat. The “Prophet” here added, at the top of his voice,— he hoped he would continue to grow fat, and swell, and, before the next election, burst!
He felt at home in the White House, and, while there, thought he began to swell a little himself. He felt that he had a perfect right there, as much right as , because it belonged to the people, and he was one of the people.
He spoke of the success attending his preaching in the Eastern cities; that the people en masse in many places were converted to the Mormon faith. That the striplings which they had sent from this wilderness to preach to the wise men and priests of the great cities, were accomplishing mighty things for the , by confounding the learned priests.
On one occasion, he said, six ministers attended a meeting where a little Mormon fellow was preaching, and undertook to put him down by ridicule: but he stood his ground, and whipped them all out, by fair argument; and the congergation acknowledged en masse that he whipped them all.
Here this spiritual discourse was brought to a close, by a violent shower of rain. After making an appointment to deliver the conclusion, the Prophet dismissed the meeting. [p. [2]]