Discourse, circa 19 July 1840, as Reported by Martha Jane Knowlton Coray–B

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-circa-19-july-1840-as-reported-by-martha-jane-knowlton-coray-b/1
Date: July 19, 1840
Handwriting: Handwriting of Martha Jane Knowlton Coray

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, ca. 19 July 1840. Featured version copied [between fall 1843 and 1850s] in Martha Jane Coray, Notebook, ca. 1843–1850s, pp. [9]–[22]; handwriting of Martha Jane Knowlton Coray; CHL.
Small book, measuring 5⅝ × 3⅝ × ⅜ inches (14 × 9 × 1 cm). The notebook consists of ninety-two pages in four gatherings of eight, sixteen, ten, and twelve leaves each. The volume is loosely sewn together with thread and lacks a cover. The pages are ruled with now-faded black lines. The beginning of the notebook appears to be missing at least one leaf that likely contained diary entries. The majority of the book’s pages are unnumbered. Coray inscribed most of the entries in the book with black ink, but the volume also includes occasional inscriptions in graphite. Twenty-four pages in the middle of the book are blank. The reverse side of the book includes inscriptions regarding Coray’s study of French. The reverse pages are numbered 3 through 20 inclusive, suggesting that the reverse side is also missing at least one leaf.
The timing of ’s appointment as in (an event referred to in the notebook) and internal dating suggest that Coray made the entries in the notebook sometime between 1843 and 1855. The first date listed in the notebook is 8 August 1853, and the last recorded date is 1 December 1854. The notebook contains diary entries, financial statements, school notes, a copy of Coray’s patriarchal blessing, and transcripts of three sermons given by JS in , Illinois.
Presumably, Coray maintained ownership of the notebook until her death in 1881. The book likely remained in the possession of the Coray family until at least July 1902. Historians later discovered the book filed among the Joseph F. Smith Papers in the Historical Department of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, suggesting that the Coray family placed the notebook in Smith’s custody sometime prior to his death in 1918.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, ca. 19 July 1840, as Reported by Martha Jane Knowlton Coray–A.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

A few Item from a discourse delivered by Joseph Smith July 19— 1840
Read a chap in [Ezekiel] ed concluding with this saying and when all these things come to pass and Lo they will come then shall you know that a Prophet hath been among you
Afterwards read the parable of the 12 olive trees and said speaking of the Land of It consists of all N. & S America but that any place where the gather is Zion which every righteous man will build up for a place of safety for his children The olive trees are 12 which are yet to be built not the in as some suppose for while the 12 stakes are being built we will be at [p. [9]]

peace but the Nations of the Earth will be at war:
our cry from the 1st has been for peace and we will continue pleading like the Widow at the feet of the unjust judge but we may plead at the feet of Majistrates and at the feet of Judges At the feet of Governors and at the feet of senotors & at the feet of Presidents for 8 years it will be of no avail we shall find no favor in any of the courts of this government
The is the redemption of all N & S America and those 12 must be built up before the redemption of Zion can take place and those who refuse to gather [p. [10]]

and build when they are comanded to do so cease to be Saviours of men and are thenceforth good for nothing but shall be cast out and trodden underfeet of men for their transgression as was when he aplied in the name of an apostate for buisness in a store in They told him that they wanted no apostates round them and showed him the door At this same store the Authorities of this could have obtained almost any amount of Credit they could have asked—
*We shall build the of the Lord in peace untill the servants of that Lord shall begin to lay the found [p. [11]]

ation of a great and high watch Tower and then shall they begin to say within themselves what need hath my Lord of this tower seeing this is a time of peace &c—
Then the Enemy shall come as a thief in the night and [one blank line] scatter the servants abroad when the seed of these 12 Olive trees are scattered abroad they will wake up the Nations of the whole Earth Eeven this Nation will be on the very verge of crumbling to peices and tumbling to the ground and when the constitution is upon the brink of ruin this people will be the Staff upon which the Nation shall [p. [12]]

lean and they shall bear the constitution away from the very verge of destruction— Then shall the Lord say Go tell all my servants who are the strength of mine house my young men and middle aged &c Come to the Land of my vineyard and fight the battle of the Lord— Then the Kings & Queens shall come then the rulers of the Earth shall come then shall all saints come yea the Foreign saints shall come to fight for the Land of my vineyard for in this thing Shall be their safety and they will have no power to choose but will come as a man fleeeth from a sudden des [p. [13]]

destruction— But before this the time shall be these who are now my friends shall become my enemies and shall seek to take my life and there are those now before me who will more furiously pursue me more dilligently seek my life and be more blood thirsty upon my track than ever were the Mobbers you say among yourselves as did them of old time is it I & is it I but I know these things by the visions of the Almighty—
But brethren come ye yea come all of you who can come and go to with your mights [p. [14]]

and build up the cities of the Lord and whosoever will let him come and partake of the poverty of freely for those who partake of her poverty shall also partake of her prosperity and it is now wisdom in God that we should enter into as compact a city as posible For and Jerusalem must both be built up before the coming of Christ How long will it take to do this 10 years yes more than 40 years will pass before this work will be accomplished and when these cities are built then shall the coming of the son of man be [p. [15]]

Now let all who can coolly and deliberately dispose of their property come up and give of their substance to the [poor] that the hearts of the poor may be comforted and all may worship god together in holiness of heart come brethren come all of you— And I prophecy in the name of the Lord that the state of shall become a great and mighty mountain as [a] city set upon a hill that cannot be hid and a great [candle] that giveth light to the world The city of also shall become the Greatest city in the whole world— [p. [16]]

curse that man who says to his neighbor you are a mean man because you do not believe as I do I now invite all liberall minded men to come up to and help to build up the city of our God We are not greatly distressed no nor ever will be This is the principle place of therefore let the brethren begin to roll in like clouds and we will sell you lots if you are able to pay for them and if not you shall have them without money and without price
The greater blessing is unto those who come in times of [p. [17]]

adversity. For many will come to us in times of prosperity that will stand at the corners of the streets saying with long pharisaical faces to those that come after thems dont go near Bro Joseph dont go near the authorities of the for they will pick your pockets they will rob you of all your money Thus will they breed in our midst a spirit of dissatisfaction and distrust that will end in persecution and distress——
Now from this hour bring every thing you can bring and build a unto the Lord a house into the mighty God [p. [18]]

of Jacob. We will build upon the top of this Temple a great observatory a great and high watch tower and in the top thereof we will Suspend a tremendous bell that when it is rung shall rouse the inhabitants of wake up the people of and sound in the ears of men [in] Then comes the ancient records yea all of them dig them yes bring them forth speedily
Then shall the poor be fed by the curious who shall come from all parts of the world to see this wonderful temple Yea I [p. [19]]

I prophecy that pleasure parties shall come from to see the Mamoth and like the Queen of Sheba shall say the half never was told them. School houses shall be built here and High schools shall be established and the great men of the earth shall send their sons here to board while they are receiving their education among us and even Noblemen shall crave the priviledge of educating their children with us and these poor saints shall chink in their pockets the money of these proud men received from such as come and dwell with us [p. [20]]

Now brethren I obligate myself to build as great a as ever solomon did if the will back me up. moreover it shall not impoverish any man but enrich thousands and I prophecy that the time shall be when these saints shall ride proudly over the mountains of and no dog nor dog Shall dare lift a tongue against them but will lick up the dust from beneath their feet and I pray the father that many here may realize this and see it with their eyes And if it should be [p. [21]]

(Stretching his hand towards the place and in a melancholly tone that made all hearts tremble) will of God that I might live to behold that completed and finished from the foundation to the top stone I will say Oh Lord it is enough Lord let thy servant depart in peace which is my ernest prayer in the name of the L Jesus Amen [p. [22]]