Discourse, 7 November 1841, as Reported by Willard Richards

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-7november-1841-as-reported-by-willard-richards/1
Date: November 7, 1841
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, , Hancock, Co., IL, 7 Nov. 1841. Version copied in Willard Richards, Letter, Nauvoo, IL, to Levi Richards, Manchester, England, 11 Nov. 1841; typescript made [1965], pp. [2]–[3]; Richards Family Papers, CHL.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 7 Nov. 1841, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

In my last I believe, I gave you some sketches of Joseph's Sermon on for the dead. I heard him last Sabbath, on Superstition &c.—highly interesting.
Brother had been preaching to the congregation to pursuade them to Charity, temperence and every thing that is good and lovely, &c. and without telling them what was good and lovely, &c. and Brother Joseph shewed that this was the sectarian method of preaching and by such preaching no one could learn the principles of righteousness, and the world is ignorant of those principles; and to do the people good we ought to tell them what those principles are instead of trying continually to enforce something they know nothing about. And he would tell them what virtue was, viz. to keep all the commandments of God without doubting or querying about it. God gives laws to suit the circumstances of his creatures. Laws in themselves contradictory; “Thou shalt not kill;” then to Abraham “Slay thy son Isaac.” Abraham rendered obedience, nothing doubting. This was virtue, perfecting his [p. [2]]

faith by works. Men got up and pretended to preach by the power of the Holy Ghost, and tell nothing new nothing but what the people understood. This is false. When men preach by the power of the Holy Ghost they will tell something new, and if a man has nothing new to tell let him sit down to give room to others (this was in ) lest he should come under some condemnation he would till something new.
“No man will be condemned before God who has no accuser.” Like the woman who was taken in the very act and they came accusing &c. “Let him without sin cast the first stone.” “Where are thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee? No man Lord. Neither do I.” Where two or three are agreed— suppose it to be to take a glass of wine in the secret chamber and enjoy themselves for an hour and harm no one. They are agreed; who shall condemn them? No one; but one of the company in not agreed; he turns accuser. Condemnation follows. Drunkenness is not good; but in such a case God might take no notice of it, if no one entered a complaint or accused the parties. Spirit of accusing is a spirit of evil and many may be condemned by it which otherwise might go clear. Our actions are between us and God if we infringe not on the rights of others. If the brethren would not acuse him he would not acuse them, but would take them all on his back and bear them safe through the gates into the kingdom, &c. &c. &c. [p. [3]]