D&C 124

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/revelation-19-january-1841-dc-124/1

Revelation, [ Nauvoo , Hancock Co., IL], 19 Jan. 1841. Featured version copied [between 19 Jan. and
7 Apr. 1841] in Book of the Law of the Lord, pp. 3–15 ; handwriting of Robert B. Thompson ; CHL.
Book of the Law of the Lord, Record Book, 1841–1845; handwriting of Willard Richards , William
Clayton , Erastus Derby , and Eliza R. Snow ; 477 pages; CHL. Includes shorthand, redactions, and
use marks. “The Book of the Law of the Lord” is a large, leather-bound blank book made with thick
paper. The paper bears a star-shaped watermark in the middle of each leaf and was printed with
forty-seven blue lines on each side. The text block was originally formed with thirty gatherings of
eight leaves each. The second gathering, however, has only six leaves. This six-leaf gathering was
the result of either a binding error or one sheet coming loose from the binding before the book was
inscribed (the book’s inscription and pagination run through this gathering without any missing text
or skipped page numbers). The gatherings were sewn all along. Each set of endpapers consisted of a
gathering of four leaves of unlined paper, but only two leaves are now extant in the back gathering.
The trimmed pages measure 16¼ × 10½ inches (41 × 27 cm). Headbands were sewn onto the text block.
The exterior pages of the endpapers are joined to the pasteboards with strips of pink cloth. Marbled
papers featuring a shell pattern with green body and veins of red and yellow are glued to the inside
covers of the boards and to the exterior page of each gathering of endpapers. The leaf edges are
stained green. The text block is bound in ledger style to the boards. The spine was constructed with
four false raised bands demarcating five panels. The boards and spine are covered in suede with
additional leather strips that cover the top and bottom of the book, including the first and fifth
panels of the spine. The suede was blind tooled on the outside covers, the raised bands of the
spine, and the turned-in edges on the inside cover. The additional leather strips are embossed with
dual lines and vegetal designs along the borders and have gold line filling. The spine is further
embossed with the number “6” in twenty-point type on the fifth panel. The second and fourth panels
have black-painted squares of paper glued to them. These feature gold lining and decoration at the
top and bottom. The completed volume measures 17 × 11 × 2¼ inches (43 × 28 × 6 cm) and includes 244
free leaves. A penciled inscription at the inside top corner of page [ii]—the verso of the front
marbled flyleaf—gives what appears to be an expensive price for this high-quality blank book: “bth |
10.00”. Robert B. Thompson inscribed nine revelations in the book on the first twenty-three pages of
lined paper. Willard Richards made minor revisions to these revelation texts. Apparently either
Richards or Thompson inscribed page numbers on pages 3–18, beginning at the first page of lined
paper, in a stylized script. Richards inscribed page numbers on pages 19–25 as well as on the next
several dozen pages. At some point, page [1], the recto of the last leaf of unlined endpaper in the
front of the book, was inscribed with a title: “THE | BOOK | of the | LAW | of the | LORD”. Because
these words are hand lettered in various ornate styles, the handwriting cannot be identified. A
matching title appears on the spine of the volume: the square of black paper on the second panel of
the spine bears a smaller rectangular label of white paper with a hand-lettered inscription: “LAW |
— of the — | LORD.” Revelations were inscribed only on the first twenty-five pages of the volume,
except in a couple of instances where they were copied into journal entries that were later
inscribed in the volume. The bulk of the volume comprises records of donations in cash and in kind
for the construction of the Nauvoo temple . Journal entries for JS are inscribed on intermittent
pages from 26 to 215. Willard Richards inscribed pages 26–126 of the book, with help from William
Clayton on pages 27–28 and 72–87. Clayton inscribed the rest of the volume, pages 127–477, with help
from Erastus Derby on pages 168–171 and from Eliza R. Snow on pages 189–190 and 192–201. These
clerks and scribes generally paginated the book and inscribed dateline page headers along the way as
they inscribed its texts. The “Law of the Lord” is listed as such in inventories of church records
made in Salt Lake City in the 1850s. These show that the volume reposed for a time in the office of
church president Brigham Young . 1 Historian’s Office. Catalogs and Inventories, 1846–1904. CHL. CR
100 130. At some point, the book was marked on the spine with an archival sticker, which was later
removed. The book eventually was housed with the papers of Joseph Fielding Smith, apparently during
his tenure as church historian and recorder (1921–1970), and then became part of the First
Presidency’s papers when he became church president in 1970. 2 “Inventory of President Joseph
Fielding Smith’s Safe,” 23 May 1970. First Presidency, General Administration Files, 1921–1972. CHL.
In 2010 the First Presidency gave custody of the book to the Church History Library. 3 Letter of
Transfer, Salt Lake City, UT, 8 Jan. 2010. CHL.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 19 January 1841, JS dictated a revelation in Nauvoo , Illinois, designating the city as the new
gathering place for the Latter-day Saints . The revelation initially addressed JS personally before
instructing other individuals and the Saints generally. Over the coming years, the lengthy
revelation would function as a sort of sacred charter for the Saints in Nauvoo in much the same way
as the recently passed act to incorporate the city served as a secular charter. 1 Since their
expulsion from northern Missouri in winter 1838–1839, the Saints had devoted much of their time to
resettling in the area of Commerce , Illinois, where they cleared the heavily forested peninsula,
drained the swampy flats along the Mississippi River , planted crops, and built homes for the rapid
influx of church members. 2 Consequently, winter 1840–1841 provided church leaders the first real
opportunity after the disruptive expulsion from Missouri to formally organize the new community and
to restructure the church. The timing and content of the January revelation came after a series of
efforts over the preceding months to seek incorporation of both the city and church from the
Illinois legislature. 3 While the city charter signaled the church’s lasting presence in Nauvoo ,
this revelation assured church members that relocating to Illinois did not entail abandoning their
efforts to establish Zion in Missouri . The revelation stated that Nauvoo was to be “a corner stone
of Zion” (or a “ stake ” of Zion) but not Zion itself. The city was not intended to be merely a
temporary refuge either, as indicated by the revelation’s commandment to build a temple there. The
revelation directed that a proclamation be written to the “kings of the world” inviting them to come
to Nauvoo “with your gold and your silver, to the help of my people.” The proclamation’s prescribed
contents (references to the “glory” of Zion and the invitation to leaders of the earth to come
bearing gold, silver, and other precious materials), along with other elements of the revelation
regarding the welcoming of visitors to the city, directly echoes the prophetic language in Isaiah
chapters 60 and 62. 4 In order to have somewhere to host the anticipated distinguished visitors, the
“weary traveler,” or anyone coming to Nauvoo to “contemplate the word of the Lord,” the revelation
directed that a boardinghouse be built. The revelation devoted more space to the subject of building
this “ Nauvoo House ” than to any other topic. Because JS and Emma Smith were to donate the land on
which the hotel would be built, the Smith family was to live there and serve as the hosts, a role in
which JS and Emma had been serving since their arrival in the area. The revelation gave specific
instructions to a number of individuals in Nauvoo, frequently recommending that they donate to the
construction of the Nauvoo House by buying shares of stock. It concluded by officially reorganizing
the church’s government, naming appointments to various ecclesiastical offices and quorums. In some
cases, rather than giving new instruction, the revelation provided formal approval and authority to
earlier decisions and actions. The commandment to build a temple in Nauvoo , for instance, gave
divine mandate to an instruction that JS had been voicing publicly for over half a year. 5 The
revelation underscored the importance of building a temple in Nauvoo by declaring that certain
ordinances —like baptisms for the dead—were appropriately performed only in the temple. The
revelation described Nauvoo as the cornerstone of Zion; an October 1839 conference of the church had
already designated the city as a new gathering place for the Saints. 6 Similarly, most of the church
leadership assignments identified in the revelation reflected prior appointments. One of the few
revelations from the Illinois period to be later canonized by the church, the 19 January revelation
served as divine direction for the Saints for the duration of their time in Nauvoo . Mayor John C.
Bennett read it at the general conference of the church in Nauvoo on 7 April 1841. 7 Times and
Seasons. Commerce/Nauvoo, IL. Nov. 1839–Feb. 1846. The text was published in the 1 June issue of the
church’s Nauvoo newspaper, Times and Seasons, as well as in the September 1841 issue of the
Latter-day Saints’ Millennial Star, printed in Manchester , England. 8 Times and Seasons.
Commerce/Nauvoo, IL. Nov. 1839–Feb. 1846. Latter-day Saints’ Millennial Star. Manchester, England,
1840–1842; Liverpool, 1842–1932; London, 1932–1970. The Saints in Illinois referred to the
revelation frequently in print and in public settings. The version featured here is the earliest
extant copy of the revelation, inscribed by Robert B. Thompson in the Book of the Law of the Lord
sometime between 19 January and 7 April 1841, when Bennett read the revelation publicly from this
source. The absence of editorial revisions and the presence of some inadvertently duplicated
passages indicate that Thompson was copying the version in the Book of the Law of the Lord from an
earlier draft that is no longer extant.

═══ REVELATION TEXT ═══

A revelation given to Joseph Smith, January 19th. 1841

Verily thus saith the Lord unto you my Servant Joseph Smith, I am well pleased with your offering, and acknowledgements which you have made; for unto this end have I raised you up, that I might shew forth my wisdom through the weak things of the earth.

Your prayers are acceptable before me, and in answer to them, I say unto you, that you are now called, immediately to make a solemn proclamation of my gospel, and of this stake, which I have planted to be a corner stone of Zion, which shall be polished with that refinement which is after the similitude of a palace.

This proclamation shall be 
made to all the Kings of the world, to the four corners thereof; to the Honorable President Elect, and the 
high minded Governors of the nation in which you live, and to all the nations of the earth, scattered abroad.

Let it be written in the spirit of meekness and by the power of the holy ghost, which 
shall be in you, at the time of the writing of the same;

for it shall be given you by the holy ghost to know my will concerning those Kings and Authorities, even what shall befall them in a time to come.

For behold I am about to call upon them to give heed to the light of <​and​> glory of Zion, for the set time has come, to favor her.

Call ye, therefore, upon them with loud proclamation and with your testimony, fearing them not, for they are as grass, and all their glory as the flower thereof, which soon falleth away; that they may be left also without excuse,

and that I may visit them in 
the day of visitation when I 
shall unveil the face of my covering, to appoint the portion of the oppressor, among hypocrites, where there is gnashing of teeth; if they reject my servants, and my testimony, which I have revealed unto them.

And again, I will visit and 
soften their hearts— many of them for your good, that ye may find grace in their eyes, that they may come to the light of truth, and the gentiles to the 
exaltation or lifting up of Zion;

for the day of my visitation cometh speedily, in an hour when you think not of; and where shall be the safety of my people? and [p. 3] refuge for those who shall be left of them?

Awake! O Kings of the earth! Come ye, O! come ye with your gold and your silver, to the help of my people, to the house of the daughter of Zion.

And, again, verily I say unto 
you, let my servant, Robert Blashel Thompson, help you to write this proclamation, for I am well pleased with him, 
and that he should be with you,

let him therefore hearken 
to your council counsel and I will bless him with a multiplicity of blessings, let him be faithful and true in all things from 
henceforth and he shall be 
great in mine eyes;

but let him remember that his stewardship will I require at his hands.

And again, verily, I say unto 
you, blessed is my servant Hyrum Smith, for I the Lord loveth him, because of the integrity of his heart, and because, he loveth that which is right before me saith the Lord.

Again, let my servant John C. Bennett help you in your labor, in sending my word to the Kings and peoples of the Earth, and stand by you, even you, my servant Joseph Smith in the hour of affliction, and his reward shall not fail, if he receive council counsel,

and for his love, he shall be great, for he shall be mine if he do this, saith the Lord. I have seen the work he hath 
done, which I accept, if he continue, and will crown him with blessings and great glory.

And, again, I say unto you, 
that it is my will that my servant Lyman Wight, should continue in preaching for Zion, in the spirit of meekness, confessing me before the world, and I will bear him up, as on eagle’s wings, and he shall beget glory and honor to himself, and unto my name,

that when he shall finish his work, that I may receive him unto myself, even as I did my servant David [W.] Patten, who is with me at this time, and also my servant Edward Partridge, and also, my aged servant Joseph Smith Senr., who sitteth with Abraham at his 
right hand, and blessed and holy is he, for he is mine.

And, again, verily I say unto 
you, my servant George Miller is without guile, he may be trusted because of the integrity of his heart; and <​for​> the love 
he has to my testimony, I the Lord loveth him.

I therefore say unto you I 
seal upon his head the office of a “bishoprick” like unto my servant Edward Partridge, that he may receive the consecrations of mine house, that he may administer blessings upon the heads of the poor of my people saith the Lord; let no man despise my servant George for he shall honor me.

Let my servant George, and 
my servant Lyman, and my servant John Snider, and others, build a house unto my name, such an one [p. 4] as my servant Joseph shall shew unto them, upon the place which he shall shew unto them also;

and it shall be for a house for boarding; a house that strangers may come from afar to lodge therein— therefore let it be a good house, worthy of 
all acceptation, that the weary traveller may find health and safety, while he shall contemplate the word of the Lord, and the corner stone I have appointed for Zion.

This house shall be a 
healthy habitation, if it be built unto my name, and if the Governor which shall be appointed unto it, shall not suffer any pollution to come upon it— It shall be holy, or the Lord your God will not dwell therein.

And, again, verily I say unto 
you, let all my saints, 
from afar;

‘And send ye swift 
messengers, yea, chosen messengers and say unto 
them, Come ye, with all your gold, and your silver, and your preceious stones, and with all your antiquitiees, and with all who have knowledge of antiquities, that will come, may come, and bring the box tree, and the fir tree, and the pine tree, together with all the precious trees of the earth,

and with iron, with copper 
and with brass, and with zink <​and with​> all your precious things of the earth, and build a house unto mine my name, for the Most High to dwell therein,

for there is not place found 
on the earth; that he may come and restore again that 
which was lost unto you, or which he hath taken away, even the fulness of the Priesthood;

for a baptismal font there is 
not upon the earth; that they, my saints may be baptized for 
those who are dead,

for this ordinance belongeth 
to my house, and cannot be acceptable to me, only in the days of your poverty, wherein ye are not able to build a house unto me;

but I command you, all ye 
my saints to build a house unto me, and I grant unto you a sufficien[t] time to build a house unto me; and during this time your baptisms, shall be acceptable unto me.

But behold, at the end of this appointment, your baptisms for your dead, shall not be acceptable unto me, and if you do not these things, at the end of the appointment, ye shall be rejected as a church, with your dead, saith the Lord your God.

For verily I say unto you, that after you have had sufficient time to build a house unto me, wherein the ordinance of baptizing for the dead belongeth, and for which the same was instituted from before the foundation of the world, your baptisms for your dead cannot be acceptable unto me,

for therein are the keys of 
the Holy Priesthood ordained, that you may receive honor and glory.

And after this time, your baptisms for the dead, by those who are scattered abroad are not acceptable unto me, saith the Lord;

for it is ordained that in Zion 
and in her stakes, and in Jerusalem those places which I have appointed <​for refuge​> shall be the places for your the baptisms for your dead.

And, again, verily I say unto 
you, how shall your washings be acceptable unto me, except, ye perform them in a house which you have built to my name<​?​>,

for, for this cause I 
commanded Moses that he should build a tabernacle, that they should bear it with them in the wilderness, and to build a house in the land of promise, that those ordinances might be revealed, which had been hid from before the world was;

therefore, verily I say unto 
you, that your anointings and your washings, and your babtisms for the dead and your solemn assemblys, and your memorials for your sacrifices, by the sons of Levi, and for your oracles in your most holy places, wherein you receive conversations, and your statutes, and judgements, for the beginning of the revelations and foundation of Zion, and for the glory and honor and endowment of all her municiples, are ordained by the ordinance of my holy house, which my people are allways Commanded to build unto my holy name.

And verily I say unto you, let 
this house be built unto my name, that I may reveal my <​mine​> ordinances therein, unto my people,

for I deign to reveal unto my church, things which have been kept hid from before the foundation of the world, things that pertain to the dispensation of the fulness of times,

and I will shew unto my 
servant Joseph all things pertaining to this house and the priesthood thereof, and the place whereon it shall be built,

and ye shall build it on the 
place where you have contemplated building <​it,​> for that is the spot which I have chosen for you to build it.

If ye labor with all your mights 
I will consecrate that spot, that it shall be made holy;

and if my people will hearken unto my voice and unto the voice of my servants whom I have appointed to lead my people, behold, verily I say unto you, they shall not be moved out of their place,

but if they will not hearken to 
my voice, nor unto the voice of these men whom I have appointed, they shall not be blest, because they pollute my mine holy grounds, and mine holy ordinances, and charters, and my holy words which I give unto them;

And it shall come to pass, 
that if you build a house unto my name, and do not do the things that I say, I will not perform the oath which I make unto you, neither fulfill the promises which ye expect at my hands saith the Lord,

for instead of blessings, ye, 
by your own works, bring cursings, wrath, indignation, and judgments upon your own 
heads by your follies and by all your abominations which you practise before me saith the Lord.

Verily, verily, I say unto you, 
that when I give a commandment unto any of the sons of men, to do a work unto my name, and those sons of men, go with all their mights, and with all they have, to perform that work and cease 
not their diligence and their enemies come upon them, and hinder them from performing that work, behold, it behoveth me to require that work no more at the hands of those sons of men; but to accept of their offering.

and the iniquity, and transgression of my holy laws and commandments I will visit upon <​the heads of​> those who hindered my work unto the third and fourth generation, so long; as they <​repent not​> & hate me, saith the Lord. God.

Therefore for this cause 
have I accepted of the offerings of those whom I commanded to build up a city, and an house unto my name in Jackson County, Missouri and were hind[e]red by their enemies saith the Lord your God.

And I will answer judgment, wrath and i[n]dignation; wailing and anguish, and gnashing of teeth upon them their heads unto the third and fourth generation, so long as they repent not, and hate me saith the Lord your God.

And this, I make an ensample unto you, for your consolation concerning all those who have been commanded to do a work, and have been hindered by the hands of their enemies, and by oppression, saith the Lord your God;

for I am the Lord your God 
and will save all those <​of your brethren​> who have been pure in heart, and have been slain in the land of Missouri saith the Lord.

And again, verily I say unto 
you, I command you again, to build an house to my name even in this place, that ye may prove yourself unto me, that ye are faithful in all things whatsoever I command you, that I may bless you, and crown you with honor, immortality, and eternal life.

And now I say unto you, as pertaining to my boarding house, which I have commanded you to build for the boarding of strangers, let it be built unto my name, and let my name, and be named upon it, and let my servant Joseph and his house have place therein from generation to generation.

For this anointing have I put upon his head, that his blessings shall also be put upon the heads of his posterity after him;

and as I said unto Abraham, concerning the 
kindreds of the earth, even so, I say unto my servant Joseph, in thee, and in thy seed shall the Kindreds of the earth be blessed

Therefore let my servant 
Joseph and his seed after him, have place in that house from generation to generation, for ever and ever, saith the Lord,

and let the name of that 
house be called the Nauvoo House, and let it be a delightful habitation for man, and a 
resting place for the weary traveller, that he may comtemplate the glory of Zion, and the glory of this, the corner stone thereof;

that he may receive also, the council from those whom I have set to be as plants of renown, and as watchmen upon her walls.

Behold, verily I say unto you, 
let my servant George Miller, and my servant Lyman Wight, and my servant John Snider, and my servant Peter Hawes [Haws], organize themselves, and appoint one of them to be a president over their quorum for the purpose of building that house,

and they shall form a constitution whereby they may receive stock, for the building of that house.

And they shall not receive 
less than fifty dollars for a share of stock in that house, and they shall be permitted to receive fifteen thousand dollars from any one man for stock in that house;

but they shall not be 
permitted to receive over fifteen thousand dollars stock, from any one man;

and they shall not be 
permitted to receive under fifty dollars for a share of stock from any one man in that house,

and they shall not be 
permitted to receive any man 
as a stockholder in that house, except the same shall pay his stock into their hands at the time he receives stock,

and in proportion to the 
amount to the amount of stock he pays into their hands, he shall receive stock in that house; but if he pay nothing into their hands, he shall not receive any stock in that house,

and if any man pay stock into their hands it shall be for stock in that house, for himself and 
for his generation after him, from generation to generation, so long as he, and his heirs shall hold that stock, and do not sell, or convey that stock away out of their hands by their own free will and act— if you will do my will saith the Lord your God.

And again verily I say unto 
you if my servant George Miller, and my servant Lyman Wight, and my servant John Snider 
and my servant Peter Hawes, receive any stock into their hands, in monies or in 
property properties wherein they receive the real value of 
monies, they shall not appropriate any portion of that stock to any other purpose only in that house,

and if they do appropriate 
any portion of that stock 
any where else, only in that house, without the consent of the stockholder, and do not repay four fold for the stock which they appropiate 
any where else, only in that house, they shall be accursed, and shall be moved out of their place saith the Lord God, for I the Lord am God and cannot 
be mocked in any of these things.

Verily: I say unto you let my servant Joseph pay stock into their hands for the building of that house as seemeth him good but my servant Joseph cannot pay over fifteen thousand dollars stock in that house, nor under fifty dollars, neither can any other man saith the Lord.

And there are others also, 
who wish to know my will concerning them, for they have asked it at my hands.

Therefore I say unto you concerning my servant Vinson Knight, if he will do my will let him put stock into that house for himself and for his generation after him, from generation <​to generation​>

and let him lift up his voice 
long and loud in the midst of the people to plead the cause of the poor and the needy, and let 
him not fail neither let his heart faint, and I will accept of his offerings, for they shall not be unto me as the offerings of Cain, for he shall be mine saith the Lord;

let his family rejoice and turn away their hearts from affliction, for I have chosen him, and anointed him, and he shall be honored in the midst of his house, for I will forgive all his sins saith the Lord. Amen.

Verily I say unto you, let my servant Hyrum put stock into that house as seemeth him good for himself and his generation after him, from generation to generation after him from generation to generation.

Let my servant Isaac Galland put stock into that house for I the Lord loveth him for the work he hath done and will 
forgive all his sins, therefore, 
let him be remembered for an interest in that house from generation to generation:

Let my servant William Marks <​Isaac Galland​> be appointed among you and be ordained by my servant William Marks, and be blest of him to go with my servant Hyrum to accomplish the work that my servant Joseph shall point out unto them and they shall be greatly blessed.

Let my servant William Marks pay stock into that house as seemeth him good for himself and his generation from generation to generation.

Let my servant Henry G. Sherwood pay stock into that house as seemeth him good 
for himself and his seed after him from generation to generation.

Let my servant William Law 
pay stock into that house for himself and his seed after him from generation to generation;

If he will do my will let him 
not take his family unto the eastern lands, even unto Kirtland: nevertherless I the 
Lord will build up Kirtland, but I the Lord have a scourge prepared for the inhabitants thereof;

and with my servant Alman Babbit [Almon Babbitt] there are many things with which I am not  well pleased; behold he 
aspireth to establish his council counsel instead of the council counsel which I have ordained, even the presidency of 
my Church, and he setteth up a golden calf, for the worship of my people.

Let no man go from this 
place who hath has come here, assaying to keep my commandments;

if they live here let them live unto me, and if they die here let them die unto me, for they shall rest from all their labors here, and shall continue their works.

Therefore let my servant 
William put his trust in me, and cease to fear concerning his family because of the sickness of the land, If ye love me Keep my commandments and the sickness of the land shall redound to your glory.

Let my Servant William go 
and proclaim mine everlasting gospel with a loud voice and with great joy as he shall be moved upon by my spirit unto the inhabitants of Warsaw and also unto the inhabitants of Carthage, and also unto the inhabitants of Madison [Fort Madison, Iowa Territory], and also unto the inhabitants of Burlington 
and 
await patiently and diligently for further instructions at my general conference saith the Lord.

<​If he will do my will​> let him from henceforth hearken to the council counsel of my servant Joseph and with his interest support the cause of the poor and publish the new translation of my holy word unto the inhabitants of the earth,

and if he will do this I will 
bless him with a multiplicity of blessings, that he shall not be forsaken, nor his seed be found begging bread.

And, again, verily I say unto 
you that my servant William, be appointed, ordained, and anointed as a councillor counsellor unto my servant Joseph in the room of my servant Hyrum, that my servant Hyrum may take the office of priesthood and patriarch, which was appointed unto him by his father by blessing and also by right,

that from henceforth he shall hold the keys of the patriarchal blessings upon the heads of all my people,

that who ever he blesses 
shall be blessed, and who ever he curseth shall be cursed, that whatsoever he shall bind on the earth shall be bound in heaven, and, that whatsoever he shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven,

and from this time forth I 
appoint unto him, that he may be a prophet and a seer and a revelator unto my church as well as my servant Joseph,

that he may act in concert 
also, with my servant Joseph, and that he shall receive 
council counsel from my servant Joseph, who shall shew unto him the keys whereby he may ask and receive, and be crowned with the same blessings. I crown upon his head, the bishoprick and blessing and glory, and honor and priesthood and gifts of the priesthood, that once was were put upon him that was my servant Oliver Cowdery;

that my servant Hyrum may bear record of the things which I shall shew unto him, that his name may be had in honorable remembrance from generation to generation for ever and ever.

Let my servant William <​Law​> also receive the Keys by which he may ask and receive blessings, let him be humble before me and be without guile and he shall receive of my spirit, even the comforter, which shall manifest unto him the truth of all things, and shall give him in the very hour, what he shall say,

and these signs shall follow 
him, he shall heal the sick, he shall cast out Devils, and shall be delivered from those who would administer unto him deadly poison,

and shall be led in paths 
where the poisonous serpents cannot lay hold upon his heel; and he shall mount up in the imagination of his thoughts as upon eagles wings,

and what if I will that he 
should raise the dead, let him not withold his voice,

therefore let my servant 
William cry aloud and spare not, with joy and rejoicing, and with hozannas to him that sitteth upon the throne for ever and ever saith the Lord your God.

Behold I say unto you I 
have a mission in store for my servant William and my servant Hyrum and for them alone, and let my servant Joseph tarry at home, for he is needed, the remainder I will shew <​unto​> you hereafter, even so, Amen.

And, again, verily I say unto 
you, if my servant Sidney [Rigdon] will serve me and be a councillor counsellor unto my servant Joseph, let him arise and come up and stand in the office of his calling, and humble himself before me

and if he will offer unto me 
an acceptable offering and acknowledgements and remain with my people, behold I the Lord your God will heal him that he shall be healed and shall 
lift up his voice again on the mountains, and be a spokesman before my face;

let him come and locate his family in the neighbourhood in which my servant Joseph resides;

and in all his journeyings let 
him lift up his voice as with the sound of a trump and warn the inhabitants of the earth to flee the wrath to come;

let him assist my servant Joseph, and also let my servant William Law assist my servant Joseph in making a solemn proclamation unto the kings of the earth even as I have before said unto you.

If my servant Sidney will do 
my will, let him not move his family unto the eastern lands, but let him change their habitation even as I have said:

Behold, it is not my will that 
he should seek to find 
safety and refuge out of the city which I have appointed unto you, even the city of Nauvoo.

Verily I say unto you, even 
now, that if he will hearken unto my voice it shall be well with him, even so, Amen.

And again verily I say unto 
you, let my servant Amos 
Davis pay stock into the hands of those whom I have appointed to build a house for boarding, even the Nauvoo House,

this let him do if he will 
have an interest and let him hearken unto the council counsel of my servant Joseph, and labor with his own hands that he may obtain the confidence of men,

and when he shall prove 
himself faithful in all things that shall be entrusted unto his care, yea even a few things, he shall be made ruler over many;

let him therefore abase 
himself, that he may be exalted, even so, Amen.

And again, verily I say unto 
you if my servant Robert D. Foster will obey my voice, let him build a house for my servant Joseph according to the 
contract which <​he​> has made with him, as the door shall be open to him from time to time,

and let him repent of all his 
folly and clothe himself with charity, and cease to do evil 
and lay aside all his hard speeches,

and pay stock also into the hands of the quorum of the Nauvoo House for himself and for his generation after him, from generation to generation

and hearken unto the 
council counsel of my servant Joseph and Hyrum and William Law, and unto the authorities which I have called to lay the foundation of Zion, and it shall be well with him, forever and ever, even so Amen.

And again, verily I say unto 
you let my no man pay stock to the quorum of the Nauvoo House, unless he shall be a believer in the Book of Mormon and the revelations I have given unto you saith the Lord your God

for that which is more or 
less than this cometh of evil, and shall be attended with cursings and not blessing saith the Lord your God, even so Amen

And again, verily I say unto 
you let the quorum of the Nauvoo House, have a just recompence of wages, for all their labors which they do in building the Nauvoo House, and let their wages be as shall be agreed among themselves as pertaining to the price thereof,

and let every man who 
pays stock bear his proportion of their wages, if it must needs be, for their support saith the Lord, otherwise their labors shall be accounted unto them for stock in that house even so, Amen.

Verily I say unto you, I now 
give unto you the offices belonging to my priesthood that ye may hold the keys thereof even the Priesthood which is after the order of Melchisadeck, which is after the order of my only begotten son.

First, I give unto you Hyrum Smith to be a patriarch unto 
you to hold the sealing 
blessings of my church, even the holy spirit of promise, whereby ye are sealed up unto the day of redemption, that ye may not fall, notwithstanding the hour of temptation that may come upon you.

I give unto you my servant Joseph to be a presiding Elder over all my Church, to be a Translater, a Revelator, a Seer, and Prophet;

I give unto him for 
Councillors Counsellors my servant Sidney Rigdon and my servant William Law that these may constitute a quorum and first presidency to receive the oracles for the whole church.

I give unto you my servant Brigham Young to be a president over the twelve travelling council

which twelve hold the keys 
to open up the authority of my kingdom upon the four corners of the earth and after that to send my word to every creature,

they are Heber C Kimbal[l], Parley P. Pratt, Orson Pratt, Orson Hyde, William Smith, John Taylor, John E. Page Wilford Woodruff, Willard Richards, George A. Smith;

David Patten I have taken 
unto myself, behold his priesthood no man taketh from him, but verily I say unto you, another may be appointed unto the same calling.

And, again, I say unto you, I give unto you I give unto you a a High Council for the 
corner stone of Zion

viz Samuel Bent, 
H. G. Sherwood, George W Harris, Charles C. Rich, Thomas Grover, Newel Knight, 
David Dort, [Lewis] Dunbar Wilson, Seymour Brunson I have taken unto myself, no man taketh his priesthood, but another may be appointed unto the same priesthood in his 
stead (and verily I say unto <​you​> let my servant Aaron Johnson be ordained unto this calling in his stead) David Ful[l]mer, Alpheus Cutler, William Huntington.

And again I give unto you 
Don C[arlos] Smith to be a president over a quorum of 
high priests,

which ordinance is 
instituted for the prupose of qualifying those who shall be appointed as standing presidents or servants of over different stakes scattered abroad

and they may travel also if 
they choose, but rather be ordained for standing presidents, this is the office of their calling sath the Lord your God,

I give unto him Amasa 
Lyman and Noah Packard for councillors that they may preside over the quorum of 
high priests of my church saith the Lord.

And again I say unto you I 
give unto you I give unto you John A Hicks, Samuel Williams, and over the <​Jesse Baker​> which priesthood is to preside over the quorum of Elders, which quorum is instituted for standing ministers, nevertherless they may travel, yet they are ordained to be standing ministers to my church saith the Lord.

And, again, I give unto you Joseph Young Josiah Butterfield, Daniel Miles, Henry Herriman [Harriman] Zera Pulsipher, Levi Hancock, James Foster to preside over the quorum of seventies,

which quorum is instituted 
for travelling Elders to bear record of my name in all the world, wherever the travelling high council, my apostles 
shall send them to prepare an way before my face,

the difference between this quorum and the quorum of Elders is, that one is to travel continually and the other is to preside over the churches from time to time, the one has the responsibility of presiding from time to time, but the other has no responsibiltiy of presiding from time to time saith the Lord your God

And, again, I say unto you, I give unto you Vinson Knight, Samuel H. Smith and Shadrick [Shadrach] Roundy if he will receive it, to preside over the Bishoprick, a knowledge of said bishoprick is given unto you in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants.

And, again, I say give unto you, Samuel Rolfe and his councillors for priests, and the president of the Teachers and his councillors and also the president of the Deacons and his councillors, and also the president of the stake and his councillors

the above offices I have 
given unto you and the keys thereof for helps and for governments for the work of the ministry, and the perfecting of my saints

and a commandment I give 
unto you that you should fill all these offices and approve of those names which I have mentioned, or else disapprove of them at my general conference;

and that ye should prepare rooms for all these offices in my house when you build it unto my name saith the Lord your God. even so. Amen.