Account of Meeting and Discourse, circa 2 March 1841

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/account-of-meeting-and-discourse-circa-2march-1841/1
Date: March 2, 1841
Handwriting: Handwriting of William P. McIntire

Account of Meeting, and JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, ca. 2 Mar. 1841]. Featured version in William P. McIntire, Notebook, p. [13]; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Account of Meeting and Discourse, 5 Jan. 1841, as Reported by William P. McIntire.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

In late winter 1841, JS attended a meeting in , Illinois, likely one of the weekly gatherings of the Nauvoo lyceum, and spoke on the principles of true friendship. JS’s comments came in direct response to another individual’s remarks on the same subject during the meeting. The topic may have even been carried over from a meeting the week before, in which JS spoke about loyalty.
wrote the account featured here in his notebook, presumably during the meeting or shortly thereafter. Although McIntire did not provide a date for the meeting, lyceum meetings appear to have been held every Tuesday in 1841, and because the text of this discourse is found in the ninth entry of McIntire’s notebook, JS likely delivered this discourse at the lyceum meeting of 2 March, the ninth Tuesday of 1841.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Next Meeting W Soby on true friendship— he said true Friendship was such as a man Laying Down his Life for his Friend. Joseph said there was a diferance Between the vengeance that Belongeth to the Lord, & a man Defending himself or friend— of the Mamon of unrighteousness Joseph said the majority of man king mankind was ist & true a must Lavish his Goods on all around him & out of them he will find freinds in the hour of Distress for those that have been made Ritch By the Benevalance of their Rich friend of them there will be some that will do you Good in affliction— [p. [13]]