Discourse, 3 October 1841, as Reported by Willard Richards

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-3october-1841-as-reported-by-willard-richards/1
Date: October 3, 1841
Handwriting: Handwriting of Willard Richards

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 3 Oct. 1841; handwriting of ; five pages; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL.
Two bifolia, each measuring 7⅞ × 5¾ inches (20 × 15 cm). The discourse is written in very faint graphite, making significant portions of the text illegible.
The discourse is part of a larger collection of general church minutes created or collected by scribes affiliated with the Church Historian’s Office. It is uncertain exactly when this discourse was included in the general church minutes. However, worked on JS’s history as early as 1842. Likely around that time, he added his records of JS’s sermons and writings to a compilation of documents about JS and the church. The featured document has likely remained in institutional custody since its creation.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On the morning of 3 October 1841, at a session of a general in , Illinois, JS gave a discourse on the doctrine of for the dead, whereby church members were baptized vicariously for their deceased relatives. attended this meeting and wrote down fragmentary notes from JS’s sermon in an apparent attempt to capture the church ’s words as he spoke. The text featured here is one of two extant versions of JS’s 3 October 1841 discourse; the other is a printed, more polished version found in the 15 October 1841 issue of the Times and Seasons. The printed version, along with additional historical context and annotation, is found in Minutes and Discourse, 1–5 October 1841.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Saviors shall come up on Mt Zion &.— what is it. &&— To preach only? No. In every dispensation something else to do beside pr do all— neglect the for the dead.— Cant that man enter into the fullness of his rest? cannot be saviors of man upon any any other principle than by re’ving revelation of all the things To trace our family by geneoloy [genealogy] & Rev— 1st principles of the Gospel no more to the Baptism for the Dead. then the dimist [dimmest] Star is to the Glory of Yonder Son. All the kindred from the days of Adam down upon that princple, Universalism is nothing. Jesus contemplated &.— Jesus went as minstering angel Spirits— according to what men do fame in the flesh & live &c— Jesus could not have eneterd & if he had not done this work. Paul— not be made perferct.— Jesus ministry spirit & & angel— Spirits of Just men made perfect & command a co of angels— spirits & bodies translated— spirits— minister to spirits— angels to angels— translated bodies cannot enter into rest— till instructed by them who had the John you shall instruct or prophecy.— prophets rose at the Resurrection— [p. 1]

Jesus went with his body & Spirit—
Dispensation of fulness &c— all dispensations— things before since the world.—
go to Books Almighty god rend the vails Said Doctrine incredible— why any more incredible that God should save the Dead after the ? men never is to ad living or Dead to service the Gospel.— in or out of the world. unpardonable sin— sin this world or the world
Spirits after the dissolution of the body— God is bound to fall of that Soul.— on Earth &c— seal of for my father.— sealed in heaven.— Books opened— of I get my father name Entered. seal him though. &c— 2. Sons born alike— one dies character alike— tomorrow Gospel come.— M. Brunstons Negros Generation where did Sectarians get their Doctrine.— from heathen refuse— brayed common sense out of the world.— Mahomet, Juyomet, Toroyes Doctrines.— Old Joe— of this thesis— Blasphemy— voice of God from heavens.— creeds of men.— why so tenacous are the mormons? old wine, mend bottles &. New Rev in old churches— old Sadness Presbytrian— into a new church— drawn ga for charity— man gone to flames of hell [p. 2]

[Text in top third portion of page 3 is illegible]
born of water by proxy— A man is judged according to
Pulling them out of the fire—
Martin Luther & .
2d. acts— no Holy Ghost
of the fullness of times which reveals in that dispensations all those dispensations all things not before revealed— Adam did not attend to his progenitors partriarchal— Eligah Israel out of the groves. by the Keys what Paul did not.— hearts of the children to their fathers &c— &— all things attended to from Adam down— every genten [generation] that have rejected the children fathers must be denied. with fathers— Baptismal font Geneoly the Dead neglected their dead. doced [p. 3]

days attend to just men Spirit of of angels— the reaping of angels— false spirits.— of just men made perfect— Angels .— death —
prepare your .— Do a man has a perfect Right to be by any man who is a kin to him if he can to Adam 144 — pray God send spirits & angels to inform them Pray God for others of your hands you.— Be . not without
.— angels seek out general [p. 4]

held here until ye hold it in my [3/4 page blank] [p. 5]