Discourse, 7 November 1841, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-7november-1841-as-reported-by-wilford-woodruff/1
Date: November 7, 1841
Handwriting: Handwriting of Wilford Woodruff

JS, Discourse, , Hancock, Co., IL, 7 Nov. 1841. Featured version copied [ca. 7 Nov. 1841] in Wilford Woodruff, Journal, vol. 4, 1 Jan. 1841–31 Dec. 1842, p. [109]; handwriting of ; Wilford Woodruff, Journals and Papers, 1828–1898, CHL.
Wilford Woodruff, Journal, vol. 4, 1 Jan. 1841–31 Dec. 1842; handwriting of ; 183 pages; Wilford Woodruff, Journals and Papers, CHL. Includes charts, drawings, redactions, and use marks.
Bound blank book measuring 6¼ × 4 × 1 inches (16 × 10 × 2½ cm), with leatherbinding. The volume contains 124 leaves (248 pages) measuring 6 × 3¾ inches (15 × 9½ cm), with an additional loose leaf of yellow paper that was folded and placed at the end of the journal. The outer edges of the leaves have a shell pattern with blue and red bodies and white veins. The front and back covers contain the remnants of a brass clasp that was presumably used to hold the book closed. Toward the top of the spine, the inscriptions “WW” and “1841–2” are written in black ink. A fragment of an old Church Historian’s Office sticker inscribed “184[1]” and “18[42]” remains near the bottom of the spine.
On an unknown date, the inside of the front cover of the journal was labeled by an unidentified scribe: “3 | January 1st 1841, | to | December 31, 1842,”. inscribed his journal in two parts on the first 182 pages, leaving two pages blank between the parts. The remainder of the volume is blank, except for three pages that Woodruff later used to record baptisms for the dead that he and his wife, Phebe Carter Woodruff, participated in during 1842 and 1844.
It is unclear when Woodruff donated the volume to the Church Historian’s Office (now CHL). and his assistants drew upon the volume for information as he wrote volume C-1 of the multivolume manuscript history of the church during 1845. and the Church Historian’s Office staff similarly drew upon the journals in writing an addendum for volume C-1 during 1854. Woodruff’s “Private Papers” were listed in a catalog record that was produced by the Church Historian’s Office in March 1858. A July 1858 inventory clarified that these papers included Woodruff’s journals. The journals likewise appear in an inventory produced circa 1878. The volume’s inclusion in these inventories suggests continuous institutional custody.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On Sunday, 7 November 1841, JS delivered a discourse to the in , Illinois, counseling them not to judge others unrighteously. According to , JS and members of the arrived at the grounds near the Nauvoo , where they found “many hundreds of Saints” gathered for worship. JS invited recently returned missionary to preach, and Clark sermonized for two hours on “charity, temperence and every thing that is good and lovely.” Clark evidently gave particular attention to the subject of temperance, likely advocating the ideology of the temperance movement popular in nineteenth-century , which condemned the excessive consumption of alcohol.
Following ’s sermon, JS addressed the congregation and chastised Clark, stating that Clark had used “the sectarian method of preaching” and that “by such preaching no one could learn the principles of righteousness.” JS then spoke on the meaning of temperance and on other principles, including charity. He urged the Saints not to make accusations of sin against each other because doing so followed the example of the devil. JS explained that the Lord’s mercy and “Charity coverd a multitude of sins.” JS also addressed the subject of superstition, explaining that many of his own actions were calculated to “break down” superstitions and traditions.
Multiple accounts of this discourse exist. Both and mentioned the sermon in their diary entries for 7 November. Richards’s entry includes only a brief summary of the sermon; Woodruff’s account captures somewhat more of JS’s remarks and was possibly created from notes Woodruff took during the sermon. Four days after JS delivered the discourse, Richards wrote a detailed account of the sermon in a letter to his brother Levi. Richards explained in the letter, however, that he was “wholly incapaci[t]ated for giving a correct description of the sermon” and cautioned that his summary was not written “for the press.” In his efforts to compile the history of the church, Richards drew upon his short diary entry to record a synopsis of the sermon in his rough draft notes. That synopsis was copied into JS’s multivolume manuscript history of the church before later being crossed out. At some point between 18 October and 20 November 1854, with the help of the Historian’s Office staff, church historian , who was likely in attendance when JS gave the original discourse, expanded the account of the sermon as part of the addenda to volume C-1 of the manuscript history. He drew upon Woodruff’s diary and presumably his own memory as his main sources for the sermon. Although these other renditions of the sermon illuminate the text, Woodruff’s rendering represents the most contemporaneous account of the sermon and is the version featured here, with details from the other accounts noted in the footnotes.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

preached about 2 hours when Br Joseph arose & reproved him as pharisaical & hypocritical & not edifying the people Br Joseph then deliverd unto us an edifying adress showing us what temperance faith virtue, charity & truth was he also said if we did not accuse one another God would not accuse us & if we had no accuser we should enter heaven he would take us there as his backload if we would not accuse him he would not accuse us & if we would throw a cloak of charity over his sins he would over ours for charity coverd a multitude of sins & what many people called sin was not sin & he did many things to break down superstition & he would break it down he spoke of the curse of ham for laughing at Noah while in his wine but doing his harm. [p. [109]]