Discourse, 19 December 1841, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-19-december-1841-as-reported-by-wilford-woodruff/1
Date: December 19, 1841
Handwriting: Handwriting of Wilford Woodruff

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 19 Dec. 1841]. Featured version copied [ca. 19 Dec. 1841] in Wilford Woodruff, Journal, vol. 4, 1 Jan. 1841–31 Dec. 1842, pp. [115]–[116]; handwriting of ; Wilford Woodruff, Journals and Papers, 1828–1898, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Discourse, 7 Nov. 1841.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On the evening of Sunday, 19 December 1841, JS delivered a discourse at his home in , Illinois, on revelation and several other subjects. , who was present on the occasion, recorded summaries and excerpts of JS’s teachings in his journal. Though Woodruff did not comment on the length of JS’s discourse, he noted that JS spoke after sermons by and and that JS was followed by , who briefly commented on the importance of building a in Nauvoo.
According to , JS read and explained the parable of the vine in John chapter 15 and then addressed a variety of other topics, most notably revelation, chastisement, and instruction from God. JS was apparently responding to the concern of some church members that he was a fallen prophet either because he delivered revelation less frequently than in times past or because he provided revelation containing direction that differed from earlier revealed instruction. JS may have been countering these criticisms by teaching the need for continuing revelation and for humility in accepting chastisement and new direction from God. JS also addressed the importance of being able to keep secrets and spoke about love.
mainly paraphrased the content of the sermon, but he enclosed various phrases within quotation marks, indicating his attempt to capture some of JS’s exact words. Woodruff also recorded an account of this discourse in his “Book of Revelations,” likely around the same time. It is possible that both texts were copied from earlier notes he made on the occasion. However, the expanded version from his journal, featured here, likely served as the original source for the more abbreviated version in his Book of Revelations. The two instances of significant textual difference are identified in footnotes below.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Joseph the Seer arose & read a chapter in the New Testiment containing the parable of the vine & its branches & explained it much to our edification & said “if we kept the commandments of God we should bring forth fruit & be the friends of God & know what our Lord did, “Some say Joseph is a fallen Prophet because he does not bring forth more of the word of the Lord” “Why does he not do it” are we able to receive it No (says he) not one in this room, He then chastized us for our wickedness & unbelief knowing that whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth & scourgeth evry son & daughter whom He receiveth & if we do not receive chastizements then are we Bastards & not Sons. On Revelation He said “A man would command his son to dig potatoes, saddle his horse but before he had done either tell him to do somthing els, this is all considered right “But as soon as the Lord gives a commandment & revokes that decree & commands somthing els then the prophet is considerd fallen &c” Because we will not receive chastizment at the hand of the Prophet & the Lord chastizeth us with sickness & death “Let not any man publish his own righteousness for others can do that for him.” sooner let him confess his sins & then he will be forgiven & he will bring forth more fruit [p. [115]]

when A man is chastized he gets angry & will not endure it. The reason we do not have the secrets of the Lord revealed unto us is because we do not keep them but reveal them, we do not keep our own secrets but reveal our difficulties to the world even to our enemies then how would we keep the secrets of the Lord Joseph says I can keep a secret till dooms day
He spoke of love what greater love hath any man than that he lay down his life for his friend then why not fight for our friend untill we die & many other things of interest was spoken. [p. [116]]