Discourse, circa 28 March 1841

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-circa-28march-1841/1
Date: March 28, 1841
Handwriting: Handwriting of William P. McIntire

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, ca. 28 Mar. 1841]. Featured version in William P. McIntire, Notebook, pp. [17]–[18]; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Account of Meeting and Discourse, 5 Jan. 1841, as Reported by William P. McIntire.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

At a Sabbath-day meeting held in , Illinois, most likely on 28 March 1841, JS delivered a discourse on the state of human spirits before birth. As he often did when preaching, JS began his discourse by reading a chapter from the Bible; on this day he chose Job 38. Drawing on this chapter and other parts of Job, JS taught that the spirits of humankind were “self Existant” before coming to earth and receiving a body. JS also spoke on the nature of God and of humankind and taught that Satan was a spirit without a body.
This discourse has some foundation in an 1833 JS revelation that stated that people’s spirits existed before they were born. The revelation declared that “man was also in the begining with God” and that “inteligence, or the Light of truth was not created or made neith[er] indeed can be.” This concept—that “intelligences” have always existed—stood in stark contrast to the commonly held Christian belief that human spirits were created at the moment of conception or birth.
JS expanded upon these ideas further in an 1839 sermon, stating, “The Spirit of Man is not a created being; it existed from Eternity & will exist to Eternity. Any thing created cannot be Eternal & earth, water &c— all these had their existence in an elementary state from Eternity. Our Savior Speaks of Children & Says their angels always stand before my father. The father called all spirits before him at the creation of Man & organized them.” Only a few months before giving the March 1841 discourse featured here, JS delivered another discourse in which he averred that “the first step in the salvation of men is the laws of eternal and self-existent principles. Spirits are eternal. At the first organization in heaven we were all present and saw the Savior chosen and appointed, and the plan of salvation made and we sanctioned it. We came to this earth that we might have a body and present it pure before God in the .” This idea of premortally existent spirits is also found in the Book of Abraham, in which the Lord teaches Abraham that these premortal spirits “have no beginning, they existed before; they shall have no end, they shall exist after, for they are Gnolaum, or Eternal.” JS spoke about this topic again in later sermons. In April 1844, he declared: “God was a self exhisting being, man exhist upon the same principle. God made a tabernacle & put a spirit in it and it became a Human soul, man exhisted in spirit & mind coequal with God himself. . . . God has power to institute laws to instruct the weaker intelligences that they may be exhalted with himself.”
This circa 28 March 1841 discourse is the second Sunday discourse for which made notes in his personal notebook. McIntire presumably wrote his notes of the sermon during the meeting or shortly thereafter. In his entry for the discourse featured here, he did not provide the date of the meeting, noting only that the meeting was held on a Sunday. This entry, however, appears immediately after an account describing a meeting that presumably took place on Sunday, 21 March, indicating that JS most likely delivered the discourse featured here at a meeting on the Sunday immediately following, 28 March.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Next Meeting Meeting on sunday Joseph Reads the 38th. Ch— of Job. in the book he says is a great Display of human Nature— it is very Natureal for a man when he sees his fellow man afflicted his Natureal conclusion is that he is suffering the Rath of an angry God & turn from him in haste not knowing the purposes of God
he says the spirit or the inteligence of men are self Existant principles before the foundation this Earth— & quotes the Lords question to Job “where wast thou when I [p. [17]]

Laid the foundation of the Earth” Evedencing that Job was in Existing somewhere at that time he says God is Good & all his acts is for the benefit of infereir [inferior] inteligences— God saw that those inteligences had Not power to Defend themselves against those that had a tabernicle therefore the Lord Calls them together in Counsel & agrees to form them tabernicles so that he might Gender the spirit & the tabernicle togather so as to create sympathy for their fellow man— for it is a Natureal thing with those spirits that has the most power to bore down on those of Lesser power so we see the Devil is without a tabernicle & the Lord has set bands to all Spirits.— & hence came the saying Jesus thou son of David why art thou come to torment us before the time, & Jesus Comanded him to Come out of the Man & the Devil besought him that he might enter in a herd of swine Near by (for the Devil knew they were a Coveitous people & if he could Kill their Hogs that would Drive Jesus out of their coasts & he then would have tabernicle enough) & Jesus permitted him to Enter into the swine [p. [18]]