Discourse, 25 April 1841, as Reported by Julius Alexander Reed

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-25-april-1841-as-reported-by-julius-alexander-reed/1
Date: April 25, 1841
Handwriting: Handwriting of Julius Alexander Reed

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 25 Apr. 1841. Featured version reported by Julius Alexander Reed; handwriting of Julius Alexander Reed; two pages; Julius Alexander Reed, Papers, Special Collections, State Historical Society of Iowa, Des Moines.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 25 April 1841, JS delivered a discourse in , Illinois, answering recent complaints made against him. Earlier that month, the had celebrated its eleventh anniversary by laying the cornerstones of the Nauvoo . JS’s attire on this occasion had reportedly offended at least one person who then left Nauvoo and abandoned the church. This incident apparently led JS on 25 April to address various criticisms leveled against him and other leaders. In particular, JS defended himself against the charges of wearing a ruffled shirt, driving a nice carriage, and saying that he was willing to steal from wealthy individuals. In addition, JS warned of the consequences of criticizing church leaders and encouraged his audience to avoid finding fault with their leaders’ conduct.
Julius Alexander Reed, a Congregationalist minister living in , heard JS speak on 25 April and made notes on what he said. Reed later published a portion of these notes, which he had revised, in the Congregational Journal. The commentary that accompanied Reed’s published account reveals his animus toward JS; he criticized JS’s “rich and genteel dress,” for instance, and pronounced him “a villain.”
Reed’s handwritten notes are featured here. Significant textual differences between this version and the version published in the Congregational Journal are identified in footnotes.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Lungs in bad state did efforts of preceding sabbath— Such a place for preaching would do for long winded cold-hearted Presbyterian but not for man of feeling—
Subject complaints of people against leaders—
Complained of his ruffle shirt—
Some poor fellow run off to & denied the faith because Brother Joseph wore a ruffle shirt on 6th of April—
Did not wear ruffle shirt— hired girls knew he had none— What was it? Old womans ruffle— pinned it in his bosom & he said to her it wd make some poor fellow deny the faith— would to God some more wd do so He meant to get some fine cloth & have ruffle shirt & hoped some more hypocrites wd kick up their heels & go—
Joseph rode in fine carriage— He did & would— He worked hard day & night— & they might ride in them if worked hard— But they wd loiter about his door all day— Didnt like to say he wished them to go but felt so— & at night burn old man Doyles fences— Bro. Joseph sd send the rich to me & I’ll pick their pockets— supposed every body knew he spoke ironically— Wd not take any mans property wrongfully— Did not say hoped would not wd try not &c. but wd not knew it— Temptations not from that quarter— Great have wd not tempt— What are my temptations? Whiskey whiskey whiskey— Could live on it & get fat & feel well. If God did not say it was sinful— Wd not wrestle with it cd not throw it—
— was blamed about setting bone—
Best Doctor they had had— Cared when applied to in season— Many refused physician till twas too late then send for Joseph to save them— I can do it but wont that’s the idea Have faith use means & I will meet them half way—
Leave to me— has been under my scrutiny— some say I’m sleepy But some see out of corner of eye when most asleep— I have seen him asleep & awake— I’ll take care of him Is little man cd take him on my shoulder— If mob come mean to put him in my pocket—
Leave him to me I’ll take care of him— I’ll take care of him any how—
Don’t lisp one word against me or my associates— which you can’t prove— If do will deliver you to buffetings of Satan & shant escape without repenting one while that is the idea Time has been when had to bear with tares but should root up the wheat— but time near when reverse & he’d nab ’em—
Finding fault with leaders moral conduct—
If had confidence in prophet that he is guided by Great God cant charge him with sin without charging God with it — So of his associates—
Should indulge them in a little sin— For Charity covereth a multitude of sins— Straining at gnat & swallowing camel What mean? Putting on long face whining thinking sister must go to hell for wearing curls & at night stealing ham out his smoke house & burning Doyles fences Noble as tip of my dogs tail (which is) pretty high up you know—
Jealousy—
Seemed as if some stood ready to swallow a man— If he was greased over feared some wd swallow him alive— Stood— just so (opening his mouth wide)—
Cd not visit sister but something wrong— cd see to wants of poor &c—
Sister Hyde had worn out pair of good shoes heaking her wood— Tried to cut it but wd strike one blow & next a yard off— Her hearth speaking ironically rat cd not run across it in seven years— all up & down motioning with his hand— child wd step in up to its hip Crickets cd not live there did not see a place where one cd run— Bluff on bluff hill & a & mountain (laughing so as to stop utterance)
Terms— read— Poor devils, derr, not afraid of devils nor his imps— you thief you that I am going to throw this stone at (throwing back his arm)
Knew more about them than they thought— God told him much wh. also he told him not to tell he did not inform of some villains because he cd not prove— but wd find him a good greyhound— grey hound can smell when others cant you know—
Read a call from to call upon to detect author of fire in Doyles fence— Sd he was in authority & sworn to do his duty— Had power & would use it— not whim as I can do nothing for you— He ordered to take 8 picked men from each company & put them under oath of secrecy as to instructions & measures— [p. [1]]

His lungs like a man who was worn down feel as tho’ cd do nothing in morning till got warm— like an foundered horse had to get warm & then go well enough
s command on 6th April—
Every one that will not keep profound silence run through with bayonet— I’ll stand in the breach your business is to obey me right or wrong. So say Davis of Terry a Mormon substitutes submit for “keep profound silence”
Smith talked politics with William H. Roosevelt from 8 A.M. to 1. P.M. & excused tardiness to the people at meeting on plea he had been communing with the Lord.
& debts to eastern merchants.
Buffaloe meat &c. Cource haired deer skin—
Harris Buffalo meat—
Smiths potatoe story—

Smith Sermon at [p. [2]]