Discourse, circa 21 March 1841, as Reported by Martha Jane Knowlton Coray

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-circa-21march-1841-as-reported-by-martha-jane-knowlton-coray/1
Date: March 21, 1841
Handwriting: Handwriting of Martha Jane Knowlton Coray

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, ca. 21 Mar. 1841]. Featured version copied [between fall 1843 and 1855] in Martha Jane Knowlton Coray, Notebook, ca. 1843–1850s, pp. [23]–[29]; handwriting of Martha Jane Knowlton Coray; CHL.
Small book, measuring 5⅝ × 3⅝ × 3/8 inches (14 × 9 × 1 cm). The notebook consists of ninety-two pages in four gatherings of eight, sixteen, ten, and twelve leaves, respectively. The volume is loosely sewn together with thread and lacks a cover. The pages are ruled with now-faded black lines. The beginning of the notebook appears to be missing at least one leaf that likely contained diary entries. The majority of the book’s pages are unnumbered. Coray inscribed most of the entries in the book with black ink, but the volume also includes occasional inscriptions in graphite. Twenty-four pages in the middle of the book are blank. At some point, Coray turned the notebook upside down and used several blank leaves at the back of the notebook for her study of French. These reverse pages are numbered 3 through 20, suggesting that the back of the notebook was also missing at least one leaf.
The timing of ’s appointment as in , Illinois (an event referred to in the notebook), and internal dating suggest that Coray made the entries in the notebook sometime between 1843 and 1855. The first date listed in the notebook is 8 August 1853, and the last recorded date is 1 December 1854. The notebook contains diary entries, financial statements, school notes, a copy of Coray’s patriarchal blessing, and transcripts of three sermons given by JS in , Illinois.
Coray presumably maintained ownership of the volume until her death in 1881. The volume likely remained in the possession of the Coray family until at least July 1902. Historians later discovered the book filed among the Joseph F. Smith Papers in the Church Historical Department of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, suggesting that the Coray family placed the notebook in Smith’s custody sometime prior to his death in 1918.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, ca. 21 Mar. 1841, as Reported by William P. McIntire.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Sermon 2nd
delivered in the latter part of the winter just before he took Laws store at the House of year 1841
Joseph Smith read the 3 chap Malachi dwelt with emphasis upon the and the promise concerning them
Took up Jhon John shewed him to be a Levite and proceeded The voice of one crying in the wilderness prepare ye the way of the Lord and make his paths strait Now it was written that the priests lips should keep knowledge, and to them should the people seek for understanding and above all the law binds them [p. [23]]

and us to receive the word of the Lord at the hands of the Levites therefore Jhon being Lawful heir to the the people were bound to receive his testimony. Hence the saying the Kingdom of heaven suffereth violence and the violent take it by force after Jhon had been testifying of Jesus for some time Jesus came unto him for Jhon felt that the honor of baptizing his master was too great a thing grater than he could claim and said I have need to be baptized of thee and comest thou to me Jesus replied thus it behooveth us to fulfill all righteousness thus signifying to Jhon the claim of the Aronic priesthood [p. [24]]

which holds the of enterance into the Kingdom. Then the three signs which were given were conclusive The dove which sat upon his shoulder was a sure testimony that he was of God Brethren be not deceived nor doubtful of this fact a spirit of a good man or an angel from heaven who has not a body will never undertake to shake hands with you for he knows you cannot peceive his touch and never will extend his hand but any spirit or body that is attended by a dove you may know to be a pure spirit thus you may is in some measure detect the spirits who may come unto you [p. [25]]

Jhon was great in that he Jesus and for this cause Jesus saith “Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than Jhon the baptist— But again he says from the days of Jhon the Batist [John the Baptist] till the Kingdom of Heaven suffereth violence and the violent taketh it by force
Jesus as I said could not enter except by the administration of Jhon. Although Jhon was not a restorer but a forerunner
It was not the Lawful priests who rejected jesus but the self made priests Those who were preests lawfully received the Saviour in his station which was given him by the Law [p. [26]]

All the Authority that we have is from Jhon The Law is not changed nor the The of ushering into the Kingdom were given to Peter James & Jhon.
Malachi 4th chap And he shall purify the sons of Levi &c yes brethren the Lord will purify the sons of Levi good or bad for it is through them that blessings flow to Israel and as Israel once was baptized in the cloud and in the sea so shall God as a refiners fire and a fullers soap purify the sons of Levi and purge them as Gold and as silver & then and not till then shall the offering of Judah & Jerusalem be pleasant unto the Lord as in days of old and as in former years [p. [27]]

And he shall witness against all iniquity as saith Malachi and shall sorely chastize those who are gone astray, but still he saith I am God I change not therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed return thou unto me and I will return unto thee. The Lord will begin by revealing the House of Israel among the gentiles and those who have gone from the of God shall return unto the keeping of all the law and observing his judgement and statutes to do them Then shall the Law of the Lord go forth from Zion and the word of the Lord to the priests and through them from Jerusalem [p. [28]]

And I prophecy that the day will come when you will say Oh that we had given heed but look now upon our public works the stone school house for instance the Simoon [simoom] of the Desert has passed over it the people will not hearken nor hear And bondage Death and destruction are close at our heels The Kingdom will not be broken up but we shall be scattered and driven gathered again & then dispersed reestablished & driven abroad and so on until the Ancient of days shall sit and the Kingom and power thereof shall be given to the saints and they shall possess it forever and ever which may God hasten for Christs sake Amen [p. [29]]