D&C 127

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/letter-to-all-the-saints-in-nauvoo-1-september-1842-dc-127/1

JS, Letter, [ Nauvoo , Hancock Co., IL], to “all the saints in Nauvoo,” Nauvoo , Hancock Co., IL, 1
Sept. 1842; handwriting of William Clayton ; three pages; Revelations Collection, CHL. Includes
address, docket, and notation. Bifolium measuring 12⅜ × 7⅝ inches (31 × 19 cm) when folded. The
bifolium is lined with thirty-five horizontal printed lines. The letter was inscribed on the recto
and verso of the first leaf and the recto of the second leaf. It was trifolded twice in letter
style, addressed, and sealed with a red adhesive wafer. It was then folded again for filing and
docketed. The document was docketed by Thomas Bullock , who served as JS’s scribe from 1843 to 1844
and as clerk to the church historian and recorder from 1845 to 1865. 1 Jessee, Dean C. “ The Writing
of Joseph Smith’s History .” BYU Studies 11 (Summer 1971): 439–473. Woodruff, Wilford. Journals,
1833–1898. Wilford Woodruff, Journals and Papers, 1828–1898. CHL. MS 1352 . It also includes a
notation in the handwriting of Andrew Jenson, who began working in the Church Historian’s Office
(later Church Historical Department) in 1891 and served as assistant church historian from 1897 to
1941. 2 Jenson, Andrew. Autobiography of Andrew Jenson: Assistant Historian of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. . . . Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1938. Cannon, George Q.
Journals, 1855–1864, 1872–1901. CHL. CR 850 1. Jenson, Andrew. Journals, 1864–1941. Andrew Jenson,
Autobiography and Journals, 1864–1941. CHL. Bitton, David, and Leonard J. Arrington. Mormons and
Their Historians. Salt Lake City: University of Utah Press, 1988. By 1983 the letter was included in
the Revelations Collection of the Church Historical Department (now CHL). 3 Best, Christy. “Register
of the Revelations Collection in the Church Archives, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints,” July 1983. CHL. The early docket, notation, and later inclusion in the Revelations
Collection suggest continuous institutional custody.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 1 September 1842, JS dictated to William Clayton a letter addressed to church members in Nauvoo
, Illinois, informing them that he was planning to leave the city in order to evade arrest and
extradition to Missouri . JS had been eluding officers seeking his arrest for most of August,
primarily by concealing himself in private residences of friends in and near Nauvoo and just across
the Mississippi River in Iowa Territory . 1 On 24 August, Illinois governor Thomas Carlin wrote to
Emma Smith indicating that he would not relent in his efforts to have JS arrested in order to
resolve the extradition matter. 2 Emma received that letter by 27 August, which may have been one
reason for JS’s departure from Nauvoo. 3 In this 1 September letter, JS urged church members in
Nauvoo to remain faithful during periods of tribulation, assured them that his business affairs
would be attended to by authorized representatives, and advised them that he would return when the
attempts to arrest him had ended. JS also included in the letter the text of a revelation on
baptisms for the dead. He had first taught the doctrine of baptizing individuals on behalf of their
deceased relatives in August 1840. 4 Historian’s Office. Joseph Smith History Documents, 1839–1860.
CHL. CR 100 396 . Smith, Joseph. Collection, 1827–1846. CHL. MS 155 . Latter-day Saints performed
the first of such baptisms in the Mississippi River until the font in the basement of the unfinished
Nauvoo temple was dedicated on 8 November 1841, after which the ordinance was performed almost
exclusively in the font. 5 Clayton, William. History of the Nauvoo Temple, ca. 1845. CHL. MS 3365.
Baugh, Alexander L. “‘For This Ordinance Belongeth to My House’: The Practice of Baptism for the
Dead Outside the Nauvoo Temple.” Mormon Historical Studies 3 (Spring 2002): 47–58. The Saints
recorded many, but not all, of these early baptisms for deceased individuals. In this letter, JS
emphasized the importance of having a recorder witness each baptism. 6 Baugh, Alexander L. “‘For
This Ordinance Belongeth to My House’: The Practice of Baptism for the Dead Outside the Nauvoo
Temple.” Mormon Historical Studies 3 (Spring 2002): 47–58. JS also informed the Saints that a number
of additional revelations concerning the ordinance and other topics were forthcoming and promised
that he would send additional instruction in future correspondence. 7 Although JS discussed his
plans to leave Nauvoo in the letter, he did not depart immediately. On 2 September, he heard that
the sheriff of Adams County , Illinois, was coming to Nauvoo to arrest him. The next day, a deputy
sheriff and two other men arrived at JS’s home, forcing JS to flee through the back door to the home
of Newel K. Whitney . Later that night, JS moved to the home of Edward Hunter , accompanied by
Erastus Derby . 8 On 4 September, Derby apparently gave the letter to William Clayton , and it was
subsequently read at a church meeting held in the grove of trees west of the temple construction
site. 9 The circumstances of this letter’s creation and the letter’s whereabouts in the days
immediately after are not entirely clear. JS may have retained the original letter after Clayton
helped him draft it on 1 September, bringing it with him into hiding until sending it to Clayton on
4 September. Alternately, just prior to the meeting at which the letter was read, JS may have sent
Derby to retrieve it from a different location and deliver it to Clayton. In either scenario, it is
unclear why the addressing to Clayton is in Clayton’s own handwriting. JS likely thought that the
public reading of this letter would lead officers of the law still in the city to discontinue their
search for JS in Nauvoo . 10 Clayton noted in JS’s journal that when the letter “was read before the
brethren it cheered their hearts and evidently had the effect of stimulating them and inspiring them
with courage, and faithfulness.” 11 Eliza R. Snow and Clayton copied the letter into JS’s journal.
12 The letter was printed in the 15 September 1842 issue of the Times and Seasons and was later
included with minor alterations in the 1844 edition of the Doctrine and Covenants , which was
prepared under JS’s direction. 13

═══ REVELATION TEXT ═══

4 September 1842 • Sunday
Sunday 4th. This day President Hyrum Smith & president Wm. Law started for the East accompanied by brothers [Erastus] Derby & [Edwin] Woolley. President Joseph sent the following letter to W[illiam] Clayton by brother Erastus H. Derby. The president wrote it and requested it to be read before the saints when assembled at the Grove near the Temple for preaching which was done according to his request.
 “September 1st. 1842

“To all the saints in Nauvoo.—
Forasmuch as the Lord has 
revealed unto me that my enemies, both of Missouri and this State were again on the pursuit of me; and inasmuch as they pursue me without cause, and have not the least shadow, or coloring of justice, or right on their side, in the getting up of their prosecutions against me; and inasmuch as their pretensions are all founded in falsehood of the blackest die; I have thought it expedient and wisdom in me to leave the place for a short season, for my own safety and the safety of this people. I would say to all those with whom I have business, that I have left my affairs with agents and Clerks, who will transact all business in a prompt and proper manner; and will see that all my debts are cancell’d in due time, by turning out property or otherwise as the case may require, or as the circumstances may admit of. When I learn that the storm is fully blown over, then, I will return to you again:

and as for the perils which I am call’d to pass through; they seem 
but a small thing to me, as the fury and wrath of man have been 
my common lot all the days of my life; and for what cause, it seems mysterious, unless I was ordained from before the foundation of the world, for some good end, or bad, as you may choose to call it: Judge ye for yourselves, God knoweth all these things whether it be good or bad; but nevertheless, deep water is what I am wont to swim in; it all has become a second nature to me and 
I feel like Paul, to glory in tribulation, for unto this day, has the God of my fathers delivered me out of them all, and will deliver me from henceforth; for behold and lo! I shall triumph over all my enemies, for the Lord God hath spoken it.

Let all the saints rejoice therefore and be exceeding glad, for Israel’s God is their God and he will meet out a just recompence of reward upon the heads of all your oppressors.

And again, verily, thus saith the Lord, let the work of my Temple, and all the works which I have appointed unto you, be continued on and not cease; and let your diligence and your perseverence, and patience and your works be redoubled, and you shall in no wise lose your reward saith the Lord of Hosts. And if they persecute you, so persecuted they the prophets and righteous men that were before you: for all this, there is a reward in heaven.

And again, I give unto [you] a word in relation to the baptism for your dead.

Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you concerning your dead; 

Let there be a Recorder, and let him be eye-witness of your baptisms; let him hear with his ears that he may testify of a truth saith the Lord;

that in all your recordings, it may 
be recorded in heaven; <​that​> whatsoever you loose <​bind​> on earth may be bound in heaven, and whatsoever you loose on earth may be loosed in heaven;

for I am about to restore many 
things to the earth pertaining to the Priesthood saith the Lord of Hosts.

And again, let all the Records be had in order, that they may be put in the archives of my holy Temple, to be held in remembrance from generation to generation, saith the Lord of Hosts.

I will say to all the saints, that I desired with exceeding great 
desire, to have address’d them from the Stand, on the subject of baptism for the dead, on the following sabbath: But inasmuch as it is out of my power to do so, I will write the Word of the Lord from time to 
time, on that subject, and send it 
you by Mail, as well as many other things.

I now close my letter for the 
present, for the want of more time; for the enemy is on the alert, and as the Savior said, the prince of this world cometh, but he hath nothing in me.

Behold! my prayer to God, is, that you all may be saved and I subscribe myself, your servant in the Lord, prophet and Seer of the Church of Jesus Christ, of Latter-Day Saints.
Joseph Smith.