Minutes and Discourse, 31 August 1842

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-31-august-1842/1
Date: August 31, 1842
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

, Minutes, and JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 31 Aug. 1842. Featured version copied [ca. 31 Aug. 1842] in Relief Society Minute Book, pp. [80]–[84]; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Nauvoo Relief Society Minute Book.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On the evening of 31 August 1842, JS met with the in , Illinois, to express his gratitude and to bless the members of the organization. In late July, the Relief Society had drafted a petition, which was signed by approximately one thousand women, defending JS and urging Governor to refuse to allow him to be extradited to . Representing the Relief Society, , , and traveled to , Illinois, and presented the petition to Carlin on 28 July. Despite their pleas, however, Carlin issued a writ to arrest JS. Unable to maintain his freedom through legal efforts, JS spent much of August in hiding, finally returning to his home on 23 August.
At the 31 August meeting, which was held in the near the , JS gave a discourse recounting his return to from exile—after having avoided extradition—and thanking the society for all they had done to aid him while he was hiding. In his discourse, JS condemned his enemies, namely and his supporters, and expressed his confidence that he would triumph despite the adversity he faced. He also spoke of additional instructions regarding for the dead, which he said he planned to share with the Latter-day Saints soon. , president of the Relief Society, then rose and read the names of women who hoped to become members of the society; they were unanimously accepted by a vote of the women present. She also asked the assembled sisters to pray for Latter-day Saint Roxsena Higby Repsher, who had separated from her husband, . At that point, JS resumed speaking; he made additional remarks about Roxsena Repsher and spoke further about baptisms for the dead, emphasizing the importance of having someone present to record the names of those who were baptized by proxy.
As secretary for the Relief Society, took minutes for the meeting, including the account of JS’s discourse. It appears that Snow initially took notes during the meeting on loose paper and then copied them into the Relief Society’s minute book shortly afterward.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

, August 31st.
Joseph Smith opened the meeting by addressing the Society. He commenced by expressing his happiness and thankfulness for the privilege of being present on the occasion. He said that great exertions had been made on the part of our enemies, but they had not accomplished their purpose— God had enabled him to keep out of their hands— he had war’d a good warfare inasmuch as he had whip’d out all of ’s host— his feelings at the present time were, that inasmuch as the Lord Almighty had preserv’d him today. He said it reminded him of the Savior, when he said to the pharisees, “Go ye and tell that fox, Behold I cast out devils, and I do cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I shall be perfected.” &c.
He said he expected the heavenly Father had decreed that the Missourians shall not get him— if they do, it will be because he does not keep out of the way.
Prest. S. continued by saying, I shall triumph over my enemies— I have begun to triumph over them at home and I shall do it abroad— all those that rise up against me will feel the weight of their iniquity upon their own heads— those that speak evil are abominable characters— and full of iniquity— All the fuss and all the stir against me, is like the jack in the lantern, it cannot be found. Altho’ I do wrong, I do not the wrongs that I am charg’d with doing— the wrong that I do is thro’ the frailty of human nature like other men. No man lives without fault. Do you think that even Jesus, if he were here would be without fault in your eyes? They said all manner of [p. [80]]

evil against him— they all watch’d for iniquity.
How easy it was for Jesus to call out all the iniquity of the hearts of those whom he was among? The servants of the Lord are required to guard against those things that are calculated to do the most evil— the little foxes spoil the vines— little evils do the most injury to the . If you have evil feelings and speak of them to one an other, it has a tendency to do mischief— these things result in those evils which are calculated to cut the throats of the heads of the church.
When I do the best I can— when I am accomplishing the greatest good, then the most evils are got up against me. I would to God that you would be wise. I now counsel you, if you know any thing, hold your tongues, and the least harm will be done.
The has taken the the most active part in my welfare— against my enemies— in petitioning to the — These measures were all necessary— Do you not see that I foresaw what was coming beforehand, by the spirit of prophesy?— All had an influence in my redemption from the hand of my enemies.
If these measures had not been taken, more serious consequences would have resulted.
I have come here to bless you. The Society has done well— their principles are to practice holiness— God loves you and your prayers in my behalf shall avail much— Let them not cease to ascend to God in my behalf. The enemy will never get weary— I expect he will array every thing against me— I expect a tremendous warfare. He that will war the christian warfare will have the angels of devils and all the infernal powers of darkness continually array’d against [p. [81]]

him. When wicked and corrupt men oppose, it is a criterion to judge if a man is warring the christian warfare. When all men speak evil of you, blessed are ye &c. Shall a man be considered bad, when men speak evil of him? No: If a man stands and opposes the world of sin, he may expect all things array’d against him.
But it will be but a little season and all these afflictions will be turn’d away from us inasmuch as we are faithful and are not overcome by these evils. By seeing the blessings of the rolling on, and the kingdom increasing and spreading from sea to sea; we will rejoice that we were not overcome by these foolish things.
Prest. S. then remark’d that a few things had been manifested to him in his absence, respecting the for the dead, which he should communicate next sabbath if nothing should occur to prevent.
Prest. S. then address’d the throne of Grace.
Prest. then rose and presented the following names, which were unanimously receiv’d
to wit.
Lucy Stevens Jane Manhard Rachel Page Mary Chipman Cherrizade Averett Mary Wilsey Polly W. Hyde Hannah York Eunice S. Hyde Nancy Walker Martha Stafford Hannah Price Sarah Phelps Catharine Harwood Jane Melling Margaret Copeland Elizabeth Jane Henderson Mary Hoover Emily Morgan Sabina A. Harrison Laura Kelly Susannah Bigler Mary E. McMullin [p. [82]]

Mary Goff Mary M. Dodge Sarah Stewart Esther Ann Gheen Catharine Head Elizabeth Study Nancy Dickson Ann Green Loisa Eager Martha J. Corey [Coray] The prayers of requested in behalf of Mrs. Roxsena Higby Repshar.
J. S. remark’d that sis. Repshar had long since been advised to return to her — has been ascertain’d by good evidence that she left her husband without cause— that he is a moral man and a gentleman— she has got into a way of having revelations, but not the rev. of God— if she will go home we will pray for her, but if not our prayers will do no good.
Prest. S. said he had one remark to make respecting the for the dead— to suffice for the time being, until he has opportunity to discuss the subject to greater length— that is, all persons baptiz’d for the dead must have a Recorder present, that he may be an eye-witness to testify of it. It will be necessary in the grand Council, that these things be testified— let it be attended to from this time, but if there is any lack it may be at the expense of our friends— they may not come forth &c.
Prayer by .
Meeting adjourn’d
Donations $ Mrs. Winnegar [Mary Winegar] 1, 00 Delany Parker .. 12½ [blank] Newell 1, 25 Polly T. Hyde 1, 00 E. Modsley [Elizabeth Maudsley] 6 Anna Smith 50 [p. [83]]

$ Agnes Marsh .. 12½ Myrza Alexander 12½ [blank] Chapman 37 [blank] Green 50 Hannah Ann Dibble Susanna Beckelhymer 1, 50 [blank] 50 Eliza Hills 2, 50 [25 lines blank] [p. [84]]