Minutes and Discourses, 17 March 1842

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourses-17-march-1842/1
Date: March 17, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of Eliza R. Snow

Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, Minutes, and JS, Discourses, , Hancock Co., IL, 17 Mar. 1842. Featured version copied [ca. 17 Mar. 1842] in Relief Society Minute Book, pp. 6–15; handwriting of ; CHL. Includes redactions. For more complete source information, see the source note for Nauvoo Relief Society Minute Book.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 17 March 1842 JS presided at the organizational meeting of the . Following a national trend in the creation of women’s benevolence, temperance, and moral reform societies, member suggested organizing a women’s society in , Illinois. Kimball proposed a sewing society with the objective of assisting with construction of the . About a dozen women met in Kimball’s home in early March 1842 and invited to draft a constitution for the new society. Decades later Kimball reminisced that when the constitution and bylaws were presented to JS, he responded, “This is not what the sisters want, there is something better for them. I have desired to organise the Sisters in the order of the [.] I now have the key by which I can do it.” Consequently, twenty women, including Kimball, Snow, and , met with JS and and on 17 March 1842 to organize the society.
The society’s first and subsequent eight meetings (through 26 May 1842) were held in the main room of the upper story of JS’s on Water Street in . Referred to in the minutes as the “lodge room,” this was the same room in which the city’s lodge of Freemasons held its organizational meeting. This Masonic lodge was officially created, and JS initiated into it and raised a Master Mason, on 15 and 16 March 1842—the two days preceding the organization of the Female Relief Society. In a letter to the society two weeks after the first meeting, JS and other church leaders referred twice to the society members as Masons, suggesting the timing of the creation of the two organizations was not coincidental. Though not a member of the sororal organization, JS attended nine of the society’s meetings in 1842, delivering sermons at six of them.
JS presided during the first part of the organizational meeting, and apostle served as the chair until the society’s officers were in place. During the meeting JS instructed the women about the purpose of the society—to care for the poor and to strengthen the morals and virtues of the community—and recommended that the women present choose a president for the society. was unanimously elected president, and she chose and as counselors. JS then gave extensive instruction to the society, referring to a July 1830 revelation that declared that Emma was “an Elect Lady” and indicating that she had been ordained to teach the female members of the community. JS gave instruction on parliamentary procedure for the business of the society. Emma Smith and her counselors replaced Taylor as chair and moderated debate regarding the formal name of the society, which they resolved would be the Female Relief Society of . The men left the meeting, at which time the society appointed further officers. When this business was concluded, the men returned and the society closed its meeting with prayer.
A note in ’s handwriting on the title page of the society’s minute book states that apostle presented the book to the organization on the day of its first meeting. Richards served as secretary for the first part of the meeting and took minutes until the men withdrew so the society could appoint more officers. At that point Snow was appointed the society’s secretary and commenced taking minutes. Although Richards gave Snow the book sometime during this day, the cleanliness of the inscription and the fact that the entire account is in Snow’s handwriting suggest that Richards and Snow—after she was appointed secretary—first inscribed these minutes elsewhere, with Snow later copying them into the minute book. Snow probably inscribed the minute book version featured below soon after the meeting. The original notes on which this copy was based are apparently no longer extant.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Lodge Room
March 17th 1842.
Present— Joseph Smith, , , and others.
was call’d to the chair by Prest. Smith, and elder appointed Secretary,
Meeting commenced by singing “The spirit of God like a fire is burning” &c.— Prayer by .
When it was mov’d by Prest. Smith and seconded by , that a vote be taken to know if all are satisfied with each female present; and are willing to acknowledge them in full fellowship, and admit them to the privileges of the Institution about to be formed.
The names of those present were then taken as follows
Mrs Mrs. Bathsheba W. Bigler Smith Phebe Ann Baldwin Hawkes Phebe M. Bartholomew Wheeler Elizabeth Hughes Jones Sophia Bundy Packard Margaret A Norris Cook Philinda Eldredge Merrick Athalia Rigdon Robinson Sophia Robinson Leonora Cannon Taylor Sophia R. Marks Prest. Smith, & Elders and [p. 6]

withdrew while the females went into an investigation of the motion, and decided that all present, be admitted according to the motion, and that
Mrs.

Kezia A. Voorhees Morrison

Abigail McMurtrey Allred
Mary Heron Snider
Sarah Stiles Granger [4 lines blank]
should be admitted; whose names were presented by Prest. Smith.
Prest. Smith, & & return’d and the meeting was address’d by Prest. Smith, to illustrate the object of the — that the Society of Sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor— searching after objects of charity, and in administering to their wants— to assist; by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the female community, and save the Elders the trouble of rebuking; that they may give their time to other duties &c. in their public teaching.
Prest. Smith further remark’d that an organization to show them how to go to work would be sufficient. He propos’d that the Sisters elect a presiding officer to preside over them, and let that presiding officer choose two Counsellors to assist in the duties of her Office— that he would them to preside over the Society— and let them preside just as the Presidency, preside over the ; and if [p. 7]

they need his instruction— ask him, he will give it from time to time.
Let this Presidency serve as a constitution— all their decisions be considered law; and acted upon as such.
If any Officers are wanted to carry out the designs of the Institution, let them be appointed and set apart, as , &c. are among us.
The minutes of your meetings will be precedents for you to act upon— your Constitution and law.
He then suggested the propriety of electing a Presidency to continue in office during good behavior, or so long as they shall continue to fill the office with dignity &c. like the of the .—
Motioned by and seconded by Sister Packard that Mrs. be chosen President— passed unanimously—
Mov’d by Prest. Smith, that proceed to choose her Counsellors, that they may be to preside over this Society, in taking care of the poor— administering to their wants, and attending to the various affairs of this Institution.
The , then made choice of Mrs. and Mrs. for Counsellors—
President Smith read the Revelation to , from the book of Doctrine and Covenants; and stated that she was ordain’d at the time, the Revelation was given, to expound the scriptures to all; and to teach the female part of community; and that not she alone, but others, may attain to the same blessings.— [p. 8]

The 2d Epistle of John, 1st verse, was then read to show that respect was then had to the same thing; and that why she was called an Elect lady is because, elected to preside.
was then appointed to the Counsellors— he laid his hands on the head of and ordain’d her to be a Counsellor to the Elect Lady, even Mrs. , to counsel, and assist her in all things pertaining to her office &c.
then laid his hands on the head of and ordain’d her to be a Counsellor to , the Prest. of the Institution— with all the privileges pertaining to the office &c.
He then laid his hands on the head of and blessed her, and confirm’d upon her all the blessings which have been confer’d on her, that she might be a mother in Israel and look to the wants of the needy, and be a pattern of virtue; and possess all the qualifications necessary for her to stand and preside and dignify her Office, to teach the females those principles requisite for their future usefulness.
Prest. Smith then resumed his remarks and gave instruction how to govern themselves in their meetings— when one wishes to speak, address the chair— and the chairman responds to the address.
Should two speak at once, the Chair shall decide who speaks first, if any one is dissatisfied, she appeals to the house—
When one has the floor, occupies as long as she pleases.
Proper manner of address is Mrs. Chairman [p. 9]

or President and not Mr. Chairman &c.
A question can never be put until it has a second
When the subject for discussion has been fairly investigated; the Chairman will say, are you ready for the question? &c.
Whatever the majority of the house decide upon becomes a law to the .
Prest. Smith proceeded to give counsel— do not injure the character of any one— if members of the Society shall conduct improperly, deal with them, and keep all your doings within your own bosoms, and hold all characters sacred—
It was then propos’d that vacate the chair.
Prest. and her Counsellors took the chair, and
mov’d— secd by J. Smith that we go into an investigation respecting what this Society shall be call’d— which was
carried unanimously
Prest. Smith continued instructions to the Chair to suggest to the members anything the chair might wish, and which it might not be proper for the chair to put, or move &c.
Mov’d by , and secon’d by , that this Society be called The Nauvoo Female Relief Society.
offered an amendment, that it be called The Nauvoo Female Benevolent Society which would give a more definite and extended idea of the Institution— that Relief be struck out and Benevolent inserted.
Prest. Smith offer’d instruction on votes— [p. 10]

The motion was seconded by and unanimously carried, on the amendment by .
The then suggested that she would like an argument with on the words Relief and Benevolence.
J. Smith mov’d that the vote for amendment, be rescinded, which was carried—
Motion for adjournment by and objected by Prest. J. Smith.—
Prest. J. Smith— Benevolent is a popular term— and the term Relief is not known among popular Societies— Relief is more extended in its signification than Benevolent and might extend to the liberation of the culprit— and might be wrongly construed by our enemies to say that the was to relieve criminals from punishment &c. &c— to relieve a murderer, which would not be a benevolent act—
Prest. , said the popularity of the word benevolent is one great objection— no person can think of the word as associated with public Institutions, without thinking of the Washingtonian Benevolent Society which was one of the most corrupt Institutions of the day— do not wish to have it call’d after other Societies in the world—
Prest. J. Smith arose to state that he had no objection to the word Relief— that on question they ought to deliberate candidly and investigate all subjects.
arose to remark concerning the question before the house, that we should not regard [p. 11]

the idle speech of our enemies— we design to act in the name of the Lord— to relieve the wants of the distressed, and do all the good we can.—
arose and said that she felt to concur with the , with regard to the word Benevolent, that many Societies with which it had been associated, were corrupt,— that the popular Institutions of the day should not be our guide— that as daughters of , we should set an example for all the world, rather than confine ourselves to the course which had been heretofore pursued— one objection to the word Relief is, that the idea associated with it is that of some great calamity— that we intend appropriating on some extraordinary occasions instead of meeting the common occurrences—
Prest. remark’d— we are going to do something extraordinary— when a boat is stuck on the rapids with a multitude of Mormons on board we shall consider that a loud call for relief— we expect extraordinary occasions and pressing calls—
arose and said— I shall have to concede the point— your arguments are so potent I cannot stand before them— I shall have to give way—
J. S. said I also shall have to concede the point, all I shall have to give to the poor, I shall give to this —
mov’d, that this Society be call’d The Nauvoo Female Relief Society— second. by —
offer’d an amendment by way of transposition of words, instead of The Nauvoo Female Relief Society, it shall be call’d The Female Relief Society of — Seconded by Prest. J. Smith and carried— [p. 12]

The previous question was then put— Shall this Society be call’d ?— carried unanimously.—
J. Smith— I now declare this Society organiz’d with President and Counsellors &c. according to Parliamentary usages— and all who shall hereafter be admitted into this Society must be free from censure and receiv’d by vote—
Prest. J. Smith offered $5.00 in gold piece to commence the funds of the Institution.
Prest. requested that the gentlemen withdraw before they proceed to the choice of Secretary and Treasurer, as was mov’d by Prest. J. Smith—
Secty.
The gentlemen withdrew when it was Motioned and second. and unanimously pass’d that be appointed Secretary, and Phebe M. Wheeler, Assistant Secretary——
Motioned, second. and carried unanimly. that be appointed Treasurer—
Prest. then arose and proceeded to make appropriate remarks on the object of the Society— its duties to others also its relative duties to each other Viz. to seek out and relieve the distressed— that each member should be ambitious to do good— that the members should deal frankly with each other— to watch over the morals— and be very careful of the character and reputation— of the members of the Institution &c.
P. A. Hawkes— Question— What shall we reply to interrogatories relative to the object of this Society?
Prest. replied— for charitable purposes. [p. 13]

Mov’d and pass’d that Cynthia Ann Howlett Eldridge be admitted as a member of this —
Coulr. donated to the fund of the Society $12½ ditto 1.00 Prest. do 1.00 Counlr. do 50 Prest. said that Mrs. Merrick is a widow— is industrious— performs her work well, therefore recommend her to the patronage of such as wish to hire needlework— those who hire widows must be prompt to pay and inasmuch as some have defrauded the laboring widow of her wages, we must be upright and deal justly—
The business of the Society concluded— the gentlemen before mentioned return’d—,
appropriated to the fund of the Society, the sum of $1,00 do 2.00 then arose and address’d the Society by saying that he is much gratified in seeing a meeting of this kind in — his heart rejoices when he sees the most distinguished characters, stepping forth in such a cause, which is calculated to bring into exercise every virtue and give scope to the benevolent feelings of the female heart— he rejoices to see this Institution organiz’d according to the law of Heaven— according to a revelation previously given to Mrs appointing her to this important calling— and to see all things moving forward in such a glorious manner— his prayer is that the blessings of God and the peace of heaven may rest on this Institution henceforth——
The Choir then sang “Come let us rejoice in the [p. 14]

day of salvation” &c.
Motion’d, that this meeting adjourn to next week, thursday, ten o’clock— A M.
The meeting then arose and was dismiss’d by prayer by .— [p. 15]