Discourse, 31 March 1842

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-31-march-1842/1
Date: March 31, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of Eliza R. Snow

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL], [31] Mar. 1842. Featured version copied [ca. 31 Mar. 1842] in Relief Society Minute Book, pp. 22–23; handwriting of ; CHL. Includes redactions. For more complete source information, see the source note for Nauvoo Relief Society Minute Book.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 31 March 1842 JS delivered a discourse in a meeting of the regarding the moral qualifications for membership in the organization. This meeting, the organization’s third, was held in the main room of the upper floor of JS’s . JS remarked on the society’s rapid growth, warning the organization to proceed cautiously by carefully investigating any women seeking admission. He instructed the members to follow the counsel and direction of the society’s presidency and to maintain virtuous moral standards. This latter recommendation paralleled instruction JS and other leaders wrote in a letter to , president of the society, and the society’s members to be read at this same meeting. JS informed the women present that he intended to make the society “a kingdom of priests.” He closed his discourse by excusing himself and the other men present so the society could proceed with the business portion of its meeting.
In the minute book, secretary misdated the minutes 30 March 1842, but the meeting was held on Thursday, 31 March. Snow missed either part or all of this meeting of the society, meaning that someone else may have taken at least some minutes for her during the meeting. The original notes are apparently no longer extant, but Snow copied them into the minute book, presumably shortly after the 31 March meeting.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

J. Smith arose— spoke of the organization of the — said he was deeply interested that it might be built up to the Most High in an acceptable manner— that its rules must be observed— that none should be received into the Society but those who were worthy— propos’d that the Society go into a close examination of every candidate— that they were going too fast— that the Society should grow up by degrees— should commence with a few individuals— thus have a select Society of the virtuous and those who will walk circumspectly— commended them for their zeal but said sometimes their zeal was not according to knowledge— One principal object of the Institution, was to purge out iniquity— said they must be extremely careful in all their examinations or the consequences would be serious
Said all difficulties which might & would cross our way must be surmounted, though the soul be tried, the heart faint, and hands hang down— must not retrace our steps— that there must be decision of character aside from sympathy— that when instructed we must obey that voice, observe the Constitution that the blessings of heaven may rest down upon us— all must act in concert or nothing can be done— that the Society should move according to the ancient Priesthood, hence there should be a select Society separate from all the evils of the world, choice, virtuous and holy— Said he was going to make of this Society a kingdom of priests an as in Enoch’s day— as in Pauls day— that it is the privilege of each member to live long [p. 22]

and enjoy health— Prest. Smith propos’d that the ladies withdraw, that the might proceed to business— that those wishing to join should have their names presented at the next meeting.—— [p. 23]