Account of Meeting and Discourse, 29 August 1842

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/account-of-meeting-and-discourse-29-august-1842/1
Date: August 29, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

Account of Meeting and JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 29 Aug. 1842. Version copied [between 29 Aug. and 2 Sept. 1842] in JS, Journal, Dec. 1841–Dec. 1842, in Book of the Law of the Lord, pp. 182–184; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Revelation, 19 Jan. 1841 [D&C 124].

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 29 Aug. 1842.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Monday 29th. This being the appointed for the above referred to, the assembled in the near the about 10 o clock A.M. introduced the object of the conference by stating
“that the people abroad had been excited by s false statements and that letters had frequently been received inquiring concerning the true nature of said reports; in consequence of which it is thought wisdom in God that every Elder who can, should now go forth to every part of the , and take proper documents with them setting forth the truth as it is and also preach the gospel, repentance, & salvation and tarry preaching untill they shall be called home. They must go wisely, humbly setting forth the truth as it is in God, and our persecutions, by which the tide of public feeling will be turned. There are many Elders here doing little and many people in the world who want to hear the truth. We want the to take their staff and go East, (not West) and if a mob should come here they will only have women and children to fight with. When you raise churches send the means you get to build the , and get the people to take stock in the . It is important that the should be finished that we may have a suitable house wherein to entertain the great ones of the earth and teach them the truth. We want the built that we may offer our oblations and where we can ask forgiveness of our sins every week, and forgive one another, and offer up our offering & get our [p. 182]

The gospel will be turned from the gentiles to the Jews. Sometime ago almost every person was , the purpose was to have you tried and ready and then to receive their blessings. Every one is wanted to be ready in two or three days, and expects there will be a liberal turnout.”
After had got nearly through president Joseph came up to the stand. The brethren were rejoiced to see him. He had not been seen for three weeks and his appearance amongst the brethren under present circumstances caused much animation and joy, it being unexpected. Some had supposed that he was gone to Europe and some to ; and some thought he was in the , Every one rejoiced to see him once more When had done speaking president Joseph got up and began his remarks by congratulating the brethren on the victory gained over the Missourians once more.
“He had told them formerly about fighting the Missourians, and about fighting alone. He had not fought them with the sword nor by carnal weapons; he had done it by stratagem or by outwitting them, and there had been no lives lost, and there would be no lives lost if they would hearken to his council. Up to this day God had given him wisdom to save the people who took council. None had ever been killed who abode by his council. At the brethren went contrary to his council, if they had not there lives would have been spared. He has been in all the while, and outwitted s associates and attended to his own business in the all the time. We want to whip the world mentally and they will whip themselves physically. The brethren cant have the tricks played upon them that were done at and , they have seen enough of the tricks of their enemies and know better”. has attempted to destroy himself,— caused all the almost to go in search of him. Is it not enough to put down all the infernal influence of the Devil what we have felt and seen, handled and evidenced of this work of God? But the Devil had influence among the Jews to cause the death of Jesus Christ by hanging between heaven and earth. and others of the same class caused trouble by telling stories to people who would betray me and ‘they must believe these stories because his wife told him so’! I will live to trample on their ashes with the soles of my feet. I prophecy in the name of Jesus Christ that such shall not prosper, they shall be cut down in their own plans. They would deliver me up Judas like, but a small band of us shall overcome. We dont want or mean to fight with the sword of the flesh but we will fight with the broad Sword of the spirit. Our enemies say our Charter and Writs of are worth nothing. We say they came from the highest authority in the , and we will hold to them. They cannot be disannulled or taken away.”
He then told the brethren what he was going to do, viz; to send all the away and when the mob came there would only be women and children to fight and they would be ashamed, He said
“I dont want you to fight but to go and gather [p. 183]

tens, hundreds and thousands to fight for you. If oppression comes I will then shew them that there is a Moses and a Joshua amongst us; and I will fight them if they dont take off oppression from me, I will do as I have done this time, I will run into the woods. I will fight them in my own way. I will send to call every where through-out the , and let documents be taken along and show to the world the corrupt and oppressive conduct of . and others, that the public may have the truth laid before them. Let the send all who will support the character of the Prophet— the Lords anointed. And if all who go will support my character I prophecy in the name of the Lord Jesus whose servant I am, that you will prosper in your missions. I have the whole plan of the kingdom before me, and no other person has. And as to all that , or can do to prevent me I can kick them off my heels, as many as you can name, I know what will become of them”. He concluded his remarks by saying “I have the best of feelings towards my brethren since this last trouble began, but to the apostates and enemies I will give a lashing every oppertunity and I will curse them.”
During the whole of this address the feelings of the brethren was indiscribable and the greatest joy and good feeling imaginable was manifest. set behind president Joseph all the time he was speaking. He looked serious and dejected, but did not betray the least signs of compunction or repentance.
About Three hundred and eighty of the brethren volunteered to go out immediately and it is probable they will nearly all be gone in two weeks [p. 184]