Discourse, 20 March, as Published in Times and Seasons

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-20-march-as-published-in-times-and-seasons/1
Date: March 20, 1842
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL], 20 Mar. 1842. Version published in Wilford Woodruff, “Sabbath Scene in Nauvoo,” Times and Seasons, 15 Apr. 1842, 3:751–752. For more complete source information, see the source note for Letter to Isaac Galland, 22 Mar. 1839.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 20 Mar. 1842, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

President Smith read the 14th chap. of Rev. and said,
“We have again the warning voice sounded in our midst which shows the uncertainty of human life; and in my leisure moments I have meditated upon the subject, and asked the question, Why it is that infants, innocent children are taken away from us? especially those that seem to be the most intelligent and interesting? and the strongest reasons that present themselves to my mind are these;—This world is a very wicked world; and it is a proverb that the ‘world grows weaker and wiser’ if it is the case, the world grows more wicked and corrupt. In the early ages of the world, a righteous man, and a man of God, and of intelligence had a better chance to do good, to be believed and received, than at the present day; but in these days such a man is much opposed and persecuted by most of the inhabitants of the earth; and he has much sorrow to pass through here, the Lord takes many away even in infancy that they may escape the envy of man, and the sorrows and evils of this present world; they were too pure, too lovely, to live on earth; therefore if rightly considered instead of mourning we have reason to rejoice as they are delivered from evil, and we shall soon have them again.
“What chance is there for infidelity when we are parting with our friends almost daily? None at all. The infidel will grasp at every straw for help until death stares him in the face, and then his infidelity takes its flight, for the realities of the eternal world are resting upon him in mighty power; and when every earthly support and prop fails him, he then sensibly feels the eternal truths of the immortality of the soul. We should take warning and not wait for the death bed to repent, as we see the infant taken away by death, so may the youth and middle aged, as well as the infant suddenly be called into eternity. Let this then prove as a warning to all, not to procrastinate repentance, or wait till a death bed; for it is the will of God that man should repent, and serve him in health, and in the strength, and power of his mind, in order to secure his blessing; and not wait until he is called to die. Also the doctrine of Baptizing children, or sprinkling them, or they must welter in hell is a doctrine not true, not supported in Holy writ, and is not consistent with the character of God. All children are redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ, and the moment that children leave this world they are taken to the bosom of Abraham. The only difference between the old and young dying, is, one lives longer in heaven, and eternal light and glory than the other, and is freed a little sooner from this miserable wicked world.— Notwithstanding all this glory, we for a moment lose sight of it, and mourn the loss; but we do not mourn as those without hope.
“My intention was, to have spoken upon the subject of baptism, but having a case of death before us I thought proper to refer to that subject. I will now however say a few words upon baptism, as I intended. God has made certain decreees which are fixed, and immovable, for instance; God set the sun, the moon, and the stars in the heavens; and gave them their laws, conditions, and bounds which they cannot pass, except by his commandments; they all move in perfect harmony in their sphere, and order, and are as lights, wonders, and signs unto us. The sea also has its bounds which it cannot pass. God has set many signs on the earth, as well as in the heavens, for instance; the oak of the forest, the fruit of the tree, the herb of the field; all bear a sign that seed hath been planted there; for it is a decree of the Lord that every tree, plant, and herb, bearing seed, should bring forth of its kind, and cannot come forth after any other law, or principle. Upon the same principle do I contend that baptism is a sign ordained of God, for the believer in Christ to take upon himself in order to enter into the kingdom of God, “for except ye are born of water, and of the spirit ye cannot enter into the kingdom of God,” saith the Saviour. It is a sign, and commandment which [p. [751]]

God has set for man to enter into his Kingdom. Those who seek to enter in any other way will seek in vain; and God will not receive them, neither will the angels acknowledge their works as accepted: for they have not obeyed the , nor attended to the signs which God ordained for the salvation of man, to prepare him for; and give him a title to a ; and God has decreed that all who will not obey his voice shall not escape the damnation of hell. What is the damnation of hell? to go with that society who have not obeyed his commands. is a sign to God, to Angels, and to heaven that we do the will of God: and there is no other way beneath the heavens whereby God hath ordained for man to come to him, to be saved, and enter into the kingdom of God, except faith in Jesus Christ; repentance, and baptism for the remission of sins, and any other course is in vain; then you have the promise of the . What is the sign of the healing of the sick? the is the sign, or way marked out by James; and the custom of the ancient Saints as ordered by the Lord; and we can not obtain the blessing by pursuing any other course, except the way marked out by the Lord.
What if we should attempt to get the gift of the Holy Ghost through any other means, except the signs, or way which God hath appointed? should we obtain it? certainly not; all other means would fail. The Lord says do so, and so, and I will bless, so, and so.
There are certain key-words, and signs belonging to the , which must be observed in order to obtain the blessing, the sign of Peter was to repent, and be baptized for the remission of sins, with the promise of the gift of the Holy Ghost: and in no other way is the gift of the Holy Ghost obtained. There is a difference between the Holy Ghost, and the gift of the Holy Ghost. Cornelius received the Holy Ghost before he was baptized; which was the convincing power of God unto him of the truth of the gospel; but he could not receive the gift of the Holy Ghost until after he was baptized. Had he not taken this sign, or ordinance upon him, the Holy Ghost which convinced him of the truth of God, would have left him. Until he obeyed these ordinances and received the gift of the Holy Ghost, by the laying on of hands, according to the order of God, he could not have healed the sick, or commanded an evil spirit to come out of a man, and it obey him; for the spirits might say unto him, as they did to the sons of Sceva;—‘Paul we know; and Jesus we know, but who are ye!’ It mattereth not whether we live long or short on the earth after we come to a knowledge of these principles and obey them unto the end. I know that all men will be damned if they do not come in the way which he hath opened; and this is the way marked out by the word of the Lord.
“As concerning the resurrection I will merely say that all men will come from the grave as they lie down, whether old or young, there will not be ‘added unto their stature one cubit;’ neither taken from it; all will be raised by the power of God, having spirit in their bodies, and not blood. Children will be enthroned in the presence of God, and the Lamb; with bodies of the same stature that they had on earth; having been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, they will there enjoy the fulness of that light glory, and intelligence which is prepared in the Celestial kingdom: ‘Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord; for they rest from their labors and their works do follow them.’
The speaker before closing called upon the assembly before him, to humble themselves in faith before God, and in mighty prayer and fasting to call upon the name of the Lord, until the elements were purified over our heads, and the earth sanctified under our feet; that the inhabitants of this may escape the power of disease and pestilence, and the destroyer that rideth upon the face of the earth; and that the Holy Spirit of God may rest upon this vast multitude. [p. 752]