Discourse, 29 October 1842

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-29-october-1842/1
Date: October 29, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 29 Oct. 1842]. Featured version copied [ca. 29 Oct. 1842] in JS, Journal, Dec. 1841–Dec. 1842, in Book of the Law of the Lord, p. 208; handwriting of ; CHL.
“The Book of the Law of the Lord” is a large, leather-bound blank book made with thick paper. The paper bears a star-shaped watermark in the middle of each leaf and was printed with forty-seven blue horizontal lines on each side. The text block was originally formed with thirty gatherings of eight leaves each. The second gathering, however, has only six leaves. This six-leaf gathering was the result of either a binding error or one sheet coming loose from the binding before the book was inscribed (the book’s inscription and pagination run through this gathering without any missing text or skipped page numbers). The gatherings were sewn all along. Each set of endpapers consisted of a gathering of four leaves of unlined paper, but only two leaves are now extant in the back gathering. The trimmed pages measure 16¼ × 10½ inches (41 × 27 cm). Headbands were sewn onto the text block. The exterior pages of the endpapers are joined to the pasteboards with strips of pink cloth. Marbled papers featuring a shell pattern with green body and veins of red and yellow are glued to the inside covers of the boards and to the exterior page of each gathering of endpapers. The leaf edges are stained green. The text block is bound in ledger style to the boards. The spine was constructed with four false raised bands demarcating five panels. The boards and spine are covered in suede with additional leather strips that cover the top and bottom of the book, including the first and fifth panels of the spine. The suede was blind tooled on the outside covers, the raised bands of the spine, and the turned-in edges on the inside cover. The additional leather strips are embossed with dual lines and vegetal designs along the borders and have gold line filling. The spine is further embossed with the number “6” in 20-point type on the fifth panel. The second and fourth panels have black-painted squares of paper glued to them. These feature gold lining and decoration at the top and bottom. The completed volume measures 17 × 11 × 2¼ inches (43 × 28 × 6 cm) and includes 244 free leaves. A penciled inscription at the inside top corner of page [ii]—the verso of the front marbled flyleaf—gives what appears to be an expensive price for this high-quality blank book: “bth | 10.00”. The book includes inscriptions by five scribes: , , , , and .
The “Law of the Lord” is listed as such in inventories of church records made in Salt Lake City in the 1850s. These show that the volume reposed for a time in the office of church president . At some point, the book was marked on the spine with an archival sticker, which was later removed. The book eventually was housed with the papers of Joseph Fielding Smith, apparently during his tenure as church historian and recorder (1921–1970), and then became part of the First Presidency’s papers when he became church president in 1970. In 2010 the First Presidency gave custody of the book to the CHL. This evidence indicates continuous institutional custody.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 29 October 1842, JS publicly addressed a group of recent newcomers to , Illinois, at his Nauvoo , explaining procedures for purchasing land in the city. The administrative process of and financial arrangements for purchasing land in Nauvoo had apparently been a source of frustration to several individuals living there. In some instances, this frustration led newly arrived Latter-day Saints to criticize JS and other leaders. Others had become disappointed upon arriving in the city because some of the Saints’ conduct—including that of some city leaders—did not meet their high expectations.
The men and women JS addressed on this occasion were church members who had moved to from and its surrounding areas. and , as well as church member , each addressed the crowd before JS made his remarks. JS urged the new arrivals to carefully follow the established method for purchasing land, attributing much of the dissatisfaction expressed by erstwhile residents to their deviation from the established process. He also implored them to be patient with his imperfections as well as those of other church leaders. recorded an account of the discourse in JS’s journal, presumably that same day. Clayton wrote that JS spoke to the group for a considerable amount of time and that he closed his remarks with a blessing.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

President Joseph spoke to them considerable, showing them the proper course to pursue and how to act in regard to making purchases of land &c. He showed them that it was generally in consequence of the brethren disobeying or disregarding council, that they became dissatisfied and murmered; and many when they arrived here were dissatisfied with the conduct of some of the saints because every thing was not done perfectly right, and they get mad and thus the devil gets advantage over them to destroy them. He said he was but a man and they must not expect him to be perfect; if they expected perfection from him, he should expect it from them, but if they would bear with his infirmities and the infirmities of the brethren, he would likewise bear with their infirmities. He said, it was likely he would have again to hide up in the woods, but they must not be discouraged but roll on the , the &c. When his enemies took away his rights he would bear it and keep out of the way but “if they take away your rights I will fight for you.” [p. 208]