D&C 130

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/instruction-2-april-1843-as-reported-by-william-clayton-dc-130/1

JS, Instruction, [ Macedonia , Hancock Co., IL, 2 Apr. 1843]. Featured version copied [between 2
Apr. 1843 and 24 Sept. 1844] in William Clayton, Journal, 27 Nov. 1842–28 Apr. 1843, [24] Sept.
1844–31 Mar. 1845, pp. 66–74; handwriting of William Clayton ; William Clayton, Journals, Nov.
1842–Jan. 1846, CHL. Includes redactions, use marks, and archival markings. For more complete source
information, see the source note for Letter to “Hands in the Stone Shop,” 21 Dec. 1842 .

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 2 April 1843, JS responded to questions and instructed the Saints in Macedonia , Illinois, about
the nature of God, prophecies of the last days, and the afterlife. The previous day, he began a
journey from Nauvoo , Illinois, to Macedonia and Carthage , Illinois. During this four-day trip, JS,
accompanied by William Clayton , Orson Hyde , and Jacob B. Backenstos , preached to members of the
branch of the church in Macedonia, visited JS’s sister Sophronia Smith McCleary , and conducted
business at Carthage. 1 After spending the night in the Macedonia home of church members Benjamin F.
and Melissa LeBaron Johnson , JS spent Sunday, 2 April 1843, attending various public gatherings and
private meetings. 2 Following a Sunday morning service in which Orson Hyde preached on portions of
the New Testament, JS corrected elements of Hyde’s sermon. He also answered theological questions
and related a dream he had, which Hyde interpreted. At some point “during the day,” JS made several
“remarks on doctrine” relating to the timing of events prophesied to occur in the days leading up to
the second coming of Jesus Christ. In the early 1840s, there was considerable interest in the
prophecies relating to the latter days. Baptist minister William Miller , for example, predicted an
approximate date for Christ’s second coming based on a close reading of the Bible. He claimed that
his examination of the books of Daniel and Revelation had revealed the second advent of Christ to be
imminent, and his message was accepted by thousands of Christians in the early 1840s. 3 Rowe, David
L. God’s Strange Work: William Miller and the End of the World. Library of Religious Biography.
Grand Rapids, MI: William B. Eerdmans, 2008. Perhaps in response to a belief held by some Millerites
that 3 April was the day appointed for the return of Christ, JS addressed this topic twice on 2
April. 4 Christian Secretary. Hartford, CT. 1838–1896. Signs of the Times and Expositor of Prophecy.
Boston. 1840–1844. Later that day, during Sabbath meetings held at 1:00 p.m. and again at 7:00 p.m.,
JS preached on the meanings of several verses from the book of Revelation. The subject may have been
of interest because of a high council meeting held two weeks earlier, in which church member
Pelatiah Brown was tried for teaching false doctrine because of his controversial interpretation of
these same passages. 5 Nauvoo Stake High Council Minutes, ca. 1839–ca. 1843. Fair copy. In Oliver
Cowdery, Diary, Jan.–Mar. 1836. CHL. During his evening discourse, JS again corrected Hyde ’s
morning sermon. At the close of the discourse, he offered Hyde a moment to respond. The apostle
stated that JS had said all that could be said and closed the meeting. JS spent the evening at the
Johnsons’ home, where he provided private instruction on portions of the book of Revelation relating
to the sealing of the 144,000. 6 William Clayton , one of JS’s travel companions, recorded details
of JS’s 2 April 1843 Sabbath-day teachings as he taught them. 7 Deseret News. Salt Lake City. 1850–.
Clayton’s journal contains other entries for which an earlier text is also extant, and comparisons
of these entries indicate that when he copied his notes, he often expanded or otherwise changed
them. Consequently, it seems likely that Clayton expanded the entries for 2 April 1843 as well. 8
Clayton, William. Journals, 1842–1845. CHL. After the trip, Willard Richards , who kept JS’s journal
but was not present at the meetings, reconstructed a timeline for these teachings in JS’s journal ,
presumably relying on Clayton’s notes and conversations with people who were present. Because
Clayton’s initial notes are apparently not extant, it is impossible to know the exact sources
Richards used to create his entry. Therefore, both Clayton’s journal entry and the JS journal entry
inscribed by Richards are featured here. 9 The Doctrine and Covenants, of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, Containing the Revelations Given to Joseph Smith, Jun., the Prophet, for the
Building Up of the Kingdom of God in the Last Days. Salt Lake City: Deseret News Office, 1876.
Annotation that appears in Clayton’s version of the discourse is not repeated in corresponding
locations in the version by Richards. Richards included some details of the day’s events that were
not part of JS’s teachings. They have been left to stand in the transcription.

═══ REVELATION TEXT ═══

P. M. Joseph preached on Revelations chap. 5. he called on me to open the meeting. He also preachd on the same subject in the evening. During the day president Joseph made the following remarks on doctrine.

I was once praying very earnestly to know to the time of the comeing of the son of man when I heard a voice repeat the following ‘Joseph my son, if thou livest untill thou art 85 years old thou shalt see the face of the son of man, therefore let this suffice and trouble me no more on this matter.’ I was left this thus without being able to decide wether this coming referred to the beginning of the Millenium, or to some previous appearing, or wether I should die and thus see his face. I believe the coming of the son of man will not be any sooner than that time

In correct<​ing​> two points in E[lde]r Hydes [Orson Hyde’s] discourse he observed as follows,
The meaning of that passage where it reads ‘when he shall appear we shall be like him for we shall see him as he is’ is this, When the saviour appears we shall see that he is a man like unto ourselves,

and that same sociality which exists amongst us here will exist among us there only it will be coupled with eternal glory which we do not enjoy now.

Also The appearing of the father 
and the son in John c 14 v 23 is a 
personal appearing, and the idea that they will 
dwell in a mans heart is a 
sectarian doctrine and is false

In answer to a question which I proposed to him as follows, ‘Is not the reckoning of Gods time, 
Angels time, prophets time & mans time according 
to the planet on which they reside

he answered Yes But there is no Angel 
ministers to this earth only what either does 
belong or has belonged to this 
earth

And the Angels do not reside on a planet like our 
earth

but they dwell with God and the planet where he 
dwells is 
like crystal, and like a sea of glass before 
the throne. This is the great Urim & Thummim whereon all things are manifest both 
things past, present & future and are continually 
before the Lord.

The Urim & Thummim is a small representation of this globe.

The earth when it is purified 
will be made like unto crystal and 
will be a Urim & Thummim 
whereby all things pertaining to an 
inferior kingdom, or all kingdoms of a lower order will be manifest to those who dwell on it. And this earth will be with Christ

Then the white stone mentioned in Rev. c 2 v 17 
is the Urim & Thummim 
whereby all things 
pertaining to an higher order of kingdoms even all kingdoms will be made known

and a the white stone is given to each of those who come into this the celestial kingdom, whereon is a new name written which no man knoweth save he that receiveth it. The new name is the key word.

Whatever principal of intelligence we obtain in this life will rise with us in the resurrection: and if a person gains more knowledge in this life through his diligence & obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come.16 There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world upon which all blessings are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated.17
The Holy Ghost is a personage,18 and a person cannot have the personage [p. 70]
of the H. G. in his heart. A man may receive the gifts of the H. G, and the H. G. may descend upon a man but not to tarry with him.
He also related the following dream19
I dreamed that a silver-headed old man came to me and said he was invaded by a gang of robbers, who were plundering his neighbors and threatening destruction to all his subjects. He had heard that I always sought to defend the oppressed, and he had come to see if the General would call out his Legion20 and protect him, and he had come to hear with his own ears what answer I would give him. I answered, if you will make out the papers and shew that you are not the aggressor I will call out the Legion [p. 71]
and defend you while I have a man to stand by me. The old man then turned to go away. When he got a little distance he turned suddenly round and said I must call out the Legion and go and he would have the papers ready when I arrived, and says he I have any amount of men which you can have under your command.
Er Hyde gave the this interpretation
The old man represents the government of these United States who will be invaded by a foreign foe, probably England. The U. S. gorvernment will call on you to defend probably all this Western Territory, and will offer you any amount of men you may need for that purpose. [p. 72]

Once when prest. Joseph was praying earnestly to know concerning the wars which are to preceed the coming of the son of man, he heard a voice proclaim that the first outbreak of general bloodshed would commence at South Carolina— see Revelation

The sealing of the 144000 was the number of priests who should be anointed to administer in the daily sacrifice &c.22

From earlier in the original transcription for verses 14-17 (prior to verse 1 of the D&C 2013).
I was once praying very earnestly to know to the time of the comeing of the son of man when I heard a voice repeat the following

‘Joseph my son, if thou livest untill thou art 
85 years old thou shalt see the face of the son 
of man, therefore let this suffice and trouble me no more on this matter.’

I was left this thus without being able to decide 
wether this coming referred to the beginning of the Millenium, or to some previous appearing, or wether I should die and thus see his face.

I believe the coming of the son of man will not be 
any sooner than that time

From earlier in the original transcription for verses 18-23 (between verses 11 and 12).
Whatever principal of intelligence we obtain 
in this life will rise with us in the resurrection:

and if a person gains more knowledge 
in this life through his diligence & 
obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come.

There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven 
before the foundations of this world upon which all blessings are predicated;

and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated.

The Holy Ghost is a personage, and a person cannot have the personage of the H. G. in his heart.

A man may receive the gifts of the H. G, and the 
H. G. may descend upon a man but not to 
tarry with him.

During prest. Joseph’s remarks he said their was a nice distinction between the vision which John saw as spoken of in Revelations & the vision which Daniel saw. the former relating only to things as they actually existed in heaven— the latter being a figure representing things on the earth. God never made use of the figure of a beast to represent the kingdom of heaven—when they were made use of it was to represent an apostate church.