Minutes and Discourse, 28 April 1842

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-28-april-1842/1
Date: April 28, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of Eliza R. Snow

Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, Minutes, and JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL. Version copied [ca. 28 Apr. 1842] in Relief Society Minute Book, pp. [34]–[42]; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Nauvoo Relief Society Minute Book.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 28 Apr. 1842.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Minutes of the Proceedings
of the
Sixth Meeting of the .

Lodge Room, April 28,th 1842.

The Meeting met according to adjournment, present Prest. Joseph Smith and —
President Smith arose and said that the purport of his being present on the occasion was, to make observations respecting the , and give instructions for the benefit of the Society That as his instructions were intended only for the Society; he requested that a vote should be taken on those present who were not members, to ascertain whether they should be admitted— he exhorted the meeting to act honestly and uprightly in all their proceedings— inasmuch as they would be call’d to give an account to Jehovah. All hearts must repent— be pure and God will regard them and bless them in a manner that they could not be bless’d in any other way—
A vote was then taken on the following names, to wit,
Hannah Dibble aye Elizabeth Sprague ay Sally Angell ay Mary Mc.Carle [McCarroll] " Mary Ann Mansfield do [ditto] Marianne Chase " Lydia A. Taylor do Elizabeth Music " Harriet P. Decker no Olive Chase " Sarah D. Rich ay Phebe Woodruff " Philote Pack " Abigail Tippetts " Julia Pack " Catharine Petty " Sarah Foster " Charity Stoddard " Sarah Boyce [Boice] " Elizabeth Rolfe " Catharine Head " Jane Judd " Lury Lucy Scovill " Emerett L. Randall " Emily Partridge " Emily Spencer " Louisa Knight " Anna Cleveland " [p. [34]]

Tryphena Crandall— aye — aye C [blank] Wood No Mary H. Palmer— " Elizabeth H. Barlow aye Lucinda A Hartwell " Charlotte Higbee " Amida Amanda Barnes Smith " Lucinda A. Hartwell " Elizabeth Edwards " Caroline Butler " Roxena Repsher " Mary Ann Badlam " Ruth Curtis " Maria Gribble— " Lydia Knights [Knight] " Ann Montague " A [blank] Clements " " Susan McArthur " Almeda Snider [Snyder] " no A Committee was then appointed to inquire into the cases of those persons to whom objections were made
Councillors and , Mrs. Allred, and [Charlotte] Hawes to be the committee.
Committee retir’d— and J. Smith arose and call’d the attention of the meeting to the 12th Chap. of 1st Cor. “Now concerning spiritual gifts” &c.— Said that the passage which reads “no man can say that Jesus is the the Lord but by the holy ghost,” should be translated, no man can know &c
He continued to read the Chap. and give instructions respecting the different offices, and the necessity of every individual acting in the sphere allotted him or her; and filling the several offices to which they were appointed— Spoke of the disposition of man, to consider the lower offices in the dishonorable and to look with jealous eyes upon the standing of others— that it was the nonsense of the human heart, for a person to be aspiring to other stations than appointed of God— that it was better for individuals to magnify their respective callings, and wait patiently till God shall say to them come up higher. He said the reason of these remarks being made, was, that some little thing was circulating in the , that some persons [p. [35]]

were not going right in &c. Said if he had common sympathies, would rejoice that the sick could be heal’d: that the time had not been before, that these things could be in their proper order— that the church is not now organiz’d in its proper order, and cannot be until the is completed—— Prest. Smith continued the subject by adverting to the commission given to the ancient apostles “Go ye into all the world” &c.— no matter who believeth; these signs, such as healing the sick, casting out devils &c. should follow all that believe whether male or female. He ask’d the if they could not see by this sweeping stroke, that wherein they are , it is the privilege of those set apart to administer in that authority which is confer’d on them— and if the sisters should have faith to heal the sick, let all hold their tongues, and let every thing roll on.
He said, if God has appointed him, and chosen him as an instrument to lead the , why not let him lead it through? Why stand in the way, when he is appointed to do a thing? Who knows the mind of God? Does he not reveal things differently from what we expect?— He remark’d that he was continually rising— altho’ he had every thing bearing him down— standing in his way and opposing— after all he always comes out right in the end.
Respecting the female laying on hands, he further remark’d, there could be no devil in it if God gave his sanction by healing— that there could be no more sin in any female laying hands on the sick than in wetting the face with water— that it is no sin for any body to do it that has faith, or if the sick has faith to be heal’d by the administration.
He reprov’d those that were dispos’d to find fault with the management of concerns— saying if he undertook to lead the church he would lead it right— that he calculates to organize the church in proper order &c. [p. [36]]

President Smith continued by speaking of the difficulties he had to surmount ever since the commencement of the work in consequence of aspiring men, “great big ” as he call’d them, who had caused him much trouble, whom he had taught in the private counsel; and they would go forth into the world and ploclaim [proclaim] the things he had taught them; as their own revelations— said the same aspiring disposition will be in this , and must be guarded against— that every person should stand and act in the place appointed, and thus sanctify the Society and get it pure—
He said he had been trampled underfoot by aspiring Elders, for all were infected with that spirit, for instance , and had been aspiring— they could not be exalted but must run away as tho’ the care and authority of the were vested with them— he said we had a subtle devil to deal with, and could only curb him by being humble.
He said as he had this opportunity, he was going to instruct the Society and point out the way for them to conduct, that they might act according to the will of God— that he did not know as he should have many opportunities of teaching them— that they were going to be left to themselves,— they would not long have him to instruct them— that the church would not have his instruction long, and the world would not be troubled with him a great while, and would not have his teachings— He spoke of delivering the to this Society and to the church— that according to his prayers God had appointed him elsewhere
He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence, in those whom God has appointed to honor, whom God has plac’d at the head to lead— that we should arm them with our prayers.— [p. [37]]

that the of the kingdom are about to be given to them, that they may be able to detect every thing false— as well as to the
He said if one member becomes corrupt and you know it; you must immediately put it away. The sympathies of the heads of the have induc’d them to bear with those that were corrupt; in consequence of which all become contaminated— you must put down iniquity and by your good example provoke the Elders to good works— if you do right, no danger of going too fast: he said he did not care how fast we run in the path of virtue. Resist evil and there is no danger. God, men, angels, and devils can’t condemn those that resist every thing that is evil— as well might the devil seek to dethrone Jehovah, as that soul that resists every thing that is evil.
The charitable — this is according to your natures— it is natural for females to have feelings of charity— you are now plac’d in a situation where you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles how great and glorious!— if you live up to your privilege, the angels cannot be restrain’d from being your associates— females, if they are pure and innocent can come into the presence of God; for what is more pleasing to God than innocence; you must be innocent or you cannot come up before God. If we would come before God let us be pure ourselves. The devil has great power— he will so transform things as to make one gape at those who are doing the will of God— You need not be tearing men for their deeds, but let the weight of innocence be felt; which is more mighty than a millstone hung about the neck. Not war, not jangle, not contradiction, but meekness, love, purity, these are the things that should magnify us.— Achan must be brought to light— iniquity must be purged out— then the vail will be rent and the blessings of heaven will flow down [p. [38]]

— they will roll down like the . This shall have power to command Queens in their midst— I now deliver it as a prophecy that before ten years shall roll round, the queens of the earth shall come and pay their respects to this Society— they shall come with their millions and shall contribute of their abundance for the relief of the poor— If you will be pure, nothing can hinder.
After this instruction, you will be responsible for your own sins. It is an honor to save yourselves— all are responsible to save themselves.
Prest. Smith, after reading from the above mentioned Chapter, continued to give instruction respecting the order of God, as established in the ; saying every one should aspire only to magnify his own office &c.——
He then commenc’d reading the 13th chapter, “Though I speak with the tongues of men” &c; and said don’t be limited in your views with regard to your neighbors’ virtues, but be limited towards your own virtues; and not think yourselves more righteous than others; you must enlarge your souls toward others if yould [you would] do like Jesus, and carry your fellow creatures to Abram’s bosom.
He said he had manifested long suffering and we must do so too—— Prest. Smith then read, “Though I have the gift of prophecy” &c. He then said, though one should become mighty— do great things— overturn mountains &c and should then turn to eat and drink with the drunken; all former deeds would not save him— but he would go to destruction!
As you increase in innocence and virtue, as you increase in goodness, let your hearts expand— let them be enlarged towards others— you must be longsuff’ring and bear with the faults and errors of mankind. How precious are the souls of men!— The female part of community are apt to be [p. [39]]

contracted in their views. You must not be contracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings.
Let this teach how to act towards husbands to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble— when he is perplex’d; if he can meet a smile, an argument— if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings. When the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace.
This Society is to get instruction thro’ the order which God has established— thro’ the medium of those appointed to lead— and I now turn the to you in the name of God and this Society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time— this is the beginning of better days, to this Society
When you go home never give a cross word, but let kindness, charity and love, crown your works henceforward. Don’t envy sinners— have mercy on them, God will destroy them.— Let your labors be confin’d mostly to those around you in your own circle; as far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world, but your administrations, should be confin’d to the circle of your immediate acquaintance, and more especially to the members of the Society.
Those to lead the Society, are authoriz’d to appoint to different offices as the circumstances shall require.
If any have a matter to reveal, let it be in your own tongue. Do not indulge too much in the gift of tongues, or the devil will take advantage of the innocent. You may speak in tongues for your comfort but I lay this down for a rule that if any thing is [p. [40]]

is taught by the gift of tongues, it is not to be received for doctrine.
Prest. S. then offered instruction respecting the propriety of females administering to the sick by the — said it was according to revelation &c. said he never was plac’d in similar circumstances, and never had given the same instruction.
He clos’d his instructions by expressing his satisfaction in improving the opportunity.
The spirit of the Lord was pour’d out in a very powerful manner, never to be forgotten by those present on that interesting occasion.
The Committee appointed to investigate into the cases of individuals, returned & reported that the objections against were remov’d; and accordingly she was received by a unanimous vote.
The following names were also read and voted as follows
aye Hannah A. Dibble aye Rebecca Reed aye Polly Sherwood " Amy Clothier no Mary C. Miller " Mary Smith aye Laura Russ " Aphia Yale " " Anna Jones no Hannah Whitlock " Elizabeth Eaton aye Eliza Moses " Lydia M. Smith aye Abigail Works " Rosetta L. Snow " [blank] Johnson " Nancy King " The gentlemen withdrew and the sisters proceeded to business, concerning the poor &c. [p. [41]]

call’d on those who could represent the poor, to do so.
The family by the name of Drury was represented as being very needy.
Prest said there was some provision in the treasury— and call’d for a vote whether some should be appropriated for the above object.
Carried in the affirmative.
Mrs. Nighman [Jane Neyman] was represented as being destitute
recommended that the widow Nighman should be visited to inquire if she was dispos’d to reform the order of her house.
After several exhortations by individuals and many comforting words &c., it was motioned, seconded and carried that we adjourn until next thursday, 2 o.clock.
The meeting arose and was dismiss’d by .
The following donations were made
to wit.
$ Sally Angell .. 18¾ Lydia Anderson 25 Elizabeth Allred 50 Abigail Leonard 25 Eliza Greene 62½ —— Melissa Bird 25 Nancy Winchester 50 50 Kuhamath Derby— 1.00 [blank] Wight— appropriates 5.00 2 dollars of which to the schooling of widow Prudence Barkdall’s children and 3, to ’ for schooling her children
Magdalene Moesser donates pr. week out of the store .. 25 [p. [42]]