Discourse, 20 March 1842, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-20-march-1842-as-reported-by-wilford-woodruff/1
Date: March 20, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of Wilford Woodruff

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 20 Mar. 1842]. Featured version copied [ca. 20 Mar. 1842] in Wilford Woodruff, Journal, vol. 4, 1 Jan. 1841–31 Dec. 1842, pp. [134]–[138]; handwriting of ; Wilford Woodruff, Journals and Papers, 1828–1898, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Discourse, 7 Nov. 1841, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On Sunday, 20 March 1842, JS preached a discourse in , Illinois, on infant mortality and before what described as a “vast assembly” who met “at an early hour.” JS had intended to speak exclusively on baptism when he learned that Marian Lyon, the two-year-old daughter of and , had died the previous day. Woodruff wrote that the body of Marian Lyon was “presented in the assembly.” This was not the first occasion on which JS had cause to reflect on the death of a child. Infant mortality rates were high throughout the nineteenth century, and JS and his wife had lost six children, including a stillborn child the month before this discourse.
wrote that JS began, as he often did, by reading a chapter from the Bible. On this occasion he read Revelation 14. The chapter recounts John the Revelator’s vision of the Lamb on Mount Sion and the 144,000 who were “redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits unto God and to the Lamb.” Woodruff then recorded what he called “a brief synopsis of some of the items presented.” JS presented infant mortality as a warning to his audience not to delay repentance. He also spoke on baptism and other ordinances as “signs” that were necessary to receive God’s blessings. JS concluded by discussing resurrection, including that of little children.
wrote that JS’s remarks on death and resurrection “were in the highest degree interesting” and that his instruction on baptism “was truly glorious to the believer in Jesus Christ.” In the afternoon, JS baptized sixty to eighty individuals in the before the congregation adjourned to a grove, where JS and bestowed the upon many of those he had baptized.
may have inscribed his “brief synopsis” using notes taken during the discourse. Woodruff’s occasional use of quotation marks indicates his attempt to capture some of JS’s actual words. Woodruff’s journal report was used as the primary text for the sermon when it was printed in the 15 April 1842 issue of the Times and Seasons. Asterisks in Woodruff’s journal mark a passage that was not included in the published account, indicating a textual relationship between the versions. In addition, the Times and Seasons article includes a notation ascribing the report to Woodruff. Significant differences between the featured text and the Times and Seasons version are noted.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

The Speaker read the 14 ch Revelations. And sayes “we have again the warning voice sounded in our midst which shows the uncertainty of human life. And in my leasure moments I have meditated upon the subject, & asked the question Why is it that, infant innocent children are taken away from us, esspecially those that seem to be most intelligent beings” Answer “This world is a vary wicked world & it is a proverb that the world grow weaker & wiser, but if it is the case the world grows more wicked & corrupt. In the early ages of the world A richeoos righteous man & a man of God & intelligence had a better chance to do good to be received & believed than at the present day, but in these days such a man is much opposed & persecuted by most of the inhabitants of the earth & he has much sorrow to pass through, hence the Lord takes many away even in infancy that they may escape the envy of man, the sorrows & evils of this present world & they were two pure & too lovely to live on Earth, Therefore if rightly considerd , instead of mourning we have reason to rejoice, as they are deliverd from evil & we shall soon have them again, What chance is their for infidelity when we are parting with our friends almost daily none at all The infidel will grasp at evry straw for help untill death stares him in the face & then his infidelity [p. [134]]

takes its flight for the realities of the eternal world are resting upon him in mighty power & when evry earthly support & prop fails him, he then sensibly feels the eternal truths of the immortality of the soul. Also the doctrin of Children or sprinkling them or they must welter in Hell is a doctrin not true not supported in Holy writ & is not consistant with the character of god The moment that children leave this world they are taken to the bosom of Abraham The ownly difference between the old & young dying is one lives longer in heaven & Eternal light & glory than the other & was freed a little sooner from this miserable wicked world Notwithstanding all this glory we for a moment loose sight of it & mourn the loss but we do not mourn as those without hope. (We should take warning & not wait for the deathbed to repent) As we see the infant taken away by death, so may the youth & middle as well as the infant suddenly be called into a great eternity, Let this then proove as a warning to all not to procrastinate repentance or wait till a death bed, for it is the will of God that man should repent & serve him in health & in the strength & power of his mind in order to secure his blessings & not wait untill he is called to die.
“My intention (says the speaker) was to have treated upon the subject of Baptism, But having a case of death before, us I thought it proper to refer to that subject, I will now however say a few words upon Baptism as intended God has made certain decreas which are fixed & unalterable for instance God has set the sun, the moon, the stars in the heavens, & given them their laws conditions, & bounds which they cannot pass except by his command, they all move in perfect harmony in there sphere & order & are as wonders, lights & signs unto us, The sea also has its bounds which it cannot pass God has set many signs in the earth as well as in heaven for instance the oaks of the forest, the fruit of the tree, the herd of the field all bear a sign that seed hath been planted there, [p. [135]]

for it is a decree of the Lord that evry tree fruit or herb bearing seed, should bring forth after its kind & cannot come forth after any other law or principle. upon the same principle do I contend that is a sign, ordained of God for the believer in Christ to take upon himself in order to enter into the kingdom of God, “for except you are born of the water & the spirit you cannot enter into the kingdom of God,” Saith the Savior, as It is a sign of command which God hath set for man to enter into this those who seek to enter in any other way will seek in vain, for God will not receive those neither will the angels acknowledge their works as accepted, for they have not taken upon themselves those & signs which God ordained for man to receive in order to receive a , & God had decreed that all who will not obey his voice shall not escape the damnation of hell, what is the damnation of hell, to go with that society who have not obeyed his commands Baptism is a sign to God to Angels to heaven that we do the will of God & their is no other way beneath the heavens whareby God hath ordained for man to come & any other cource is in vain. God hath decreed & ordained that man should repent of all his sins & Be Baptized for the remission of his sins then he can come to God in the name of Jesus Christ in faith then we have the promise of the
What is the sign of the healing of the sick? the , is the sign or way marked out by James & the custom of the ancient saints as ordered by the Lord & we should not obtain the blessing by persuing any other course except the way which God has markd out.
What if we should attempt to get the Holy Ghost through any other means except the sign or way which God hath appointed, should we obtain it certainly not all other means would fail The Lord says do so & so & I will bless so & so their is certain key words & signs belonging to the which must be observed in order to obtaine the Blessings [p. [136]]

The sign of Peter was, to repent & be for the remission of Sins, with the promise of the & in no other way is the gift of the Holy Ghost obtained, Their is a difference between the Holy Ghost & the gift of the Holy Ghost, Cornelius received the Holy Ghost before he was Baptized which was the convincing power of God unto him of the truth of the gospel, but he could not receive the gift of the Holy Ghost untill after he was Baptized, & had he not taken this sign or upon him the Holy Ghost which convinced him of the truth of God would have left him, untill he obeyed these ordinances & received the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands according to the order of God he could not have healed the sick or commanded an evil spirit to come out of a man & it obey him for the spirit might say to him as he did to the sons of Scava, Peter I know & Christ I know but who are ye
It mattereth not whither we live long or short after we come to a knowledge of these principles & obey them, I know that all men will be damned if they do not come in the way which God has appointed
As concerning the resurrection I will merely say that all men will come from the grave as they lie down, whether old or young their will not be added unto their stature one cubit neither taken from it, All being raised by the power of God having the Spirit of God in their bodies & not Blood children will be enthroned in the presence of God & the Lamb with bodies of the same stature that were on earth, Having been redeemed by the Blood of the Lamb they will there enjoy a fulness of that light Glory & intelligence which is received in the of God “Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, for they rest from their [p. [137]]

labours & their works do follow them”
The Speaker before closing, called upon the vast assembly before him to humble themselves in faith before God, & in mighty Prayer & fasting to call upon his Holy name, untill the elements were purified over our heads & the earth sanctified under our feet that the inhabitants of this may escape the power of the disease, pestilences & destroyer that rideth upon the face of the earth & that the holy spirit of God may rest upon this vast multitude [p. [138]]