Minutes and Discourse, 26 May 1842

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-26-may-1842/1
Date: May 26, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of Eliza R. Snow

, Minutes and JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 26 May 1842. Version copied [ca. 26 May 1842] in Relief Society Minute Book, [50]–[54]; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Nauvoo Relief Society Minute Book.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 26 May 1842.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Minutes of the Proceedings
of the
Ninth Meeting of the .
[1 line blank]
Lodge Room May 26th.
Meeting opened with singing “How firm a foundation” &c.— Prayar by — not present— House full to overflowing.
arose and propos’d that the necessities be considered and donations received— that all other business be defer’d on account of the absence of the — She also propos’d that a few of the congregation retire to ’s and engage in prayer.
The following Donations receiv’d.
$ .. 50 Mary Heron Snider .. 50 Margaret Hurr Herr .. 25 Sarah Granger 1. 00 Mary M. Smith 2. 00 Sarah Davis .. 62½ Mrs. Hannah Whitlock .. 50 Lydia Anderson 1. 51 Nancy Rockwood .. 50 Nancy King .. 25 12 00 in clothing 2, 00 .. 35 children’s clothes Eliza Mills bed Quilt 3. 00 gave an exhortation to humility and watchfulness &c.— rejoic’d at the numbers present who were uniting their faith with their works, alluding to Donations just receiv’d. [p. [50]]

J. Smith & then entered.
Prest. J. Smith rose, read the 14th Chap. of Ezekiel— said the Lord had declar’d by the prophet that the people should each one stand for himself and depend on no man or men in that state of corruption of the Jewish church— that righteous persons could only deliver their own souls— applied it to the present state of the — said if the people departed from the Lord, they must fall— that they were depending on the prophet hence were darkened in their minds from neglect of themselves— envious toward the innocent, while they afflict the virtuous with their shafts of envy.
There is another error which opens a door for the adversary to enter. As females possess refin’d feelings and sensitiveness, they are also subject to an overmuch zeal which must ever prove dangerous, and cause them to be rigid in a religious capacity— should be arm’d with mercy notwithstanding the iniquity among us. Said he had been instrumental in bringing it to light— melancholy and awful that so many are under the condemnation of the devil & going to perdition.
With deep feeling said that they are our fellows— we lov’d them once. Shall we not encourage them to reformation?
We have not forgivn them seventy times— perhaps we have not forgiven them once. There is now a day of salvation to such as repent and reform— they should be cast out from this , yet we should woo them to return to God lest they escape not the damnation of hell!
When there is a mountain top there also is a vally— we should act in all things an a proper medium— to every immortal spirit. Notwithstanding the unworthy are among us, the virtuous should not from self-importance grieve and oppress needlessly those unfortunate ones, even [p. [51]]

these should be encourag’d to hereafter live to be honored by this who are the best portions of community. Said he had two things to recommend to the Society, to put a double watch over the tongue. No organiz’d body can exist without this at all. All organiz’d bodies have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and difficulties— the object is to make those not so good, equal with the good and ever hold the keys of pow’r which will influence to virtue and goodness. Should chasten and reprove and keep it all in silence, not even mention them again, then you will be established in power, virtue and holiness and the wrath of God will be turn’d away. One request to the and Society, that you search yourselves— the tongue is an unruly member— hold your tongues about things of no moment,— a little tale will set the world on fire. At this time the truth on the guilty should not be told openly— Strange as this may seem, yet this is policy. We must use precaution in bringing sinners to justice lest in exposing these heinous sins, we draw the indignation of a world upon us (and to their imagination justly too)
It is necessary to hold an influence in the world and thus spare ourselves an extermination; and also accomplish our end in spreading the gospel or holiness in the earth.
If we were brought to desolation, the disobedient would find no help. There are some who are obedient yet men cannot steady the ark— my arm can not do it— God must steady it. To the iniquitous show yourselves merciful. I am advis’d by some of the heads of the to tell the Relief Society to be virtuous— but to save the church from desolation and the sword beware, be still, be prudent. Repent, reform but do it in a way to not destroy all around you. I do not want to cloak iniquity— all things contrary to the will [p. [52]]

of God, should be cast from us, but dont do more hurt than good with your tongues— be pure in heart— Jesus designs to save the people out of their sins. Said Jesus ye shall do the work which ye see me do— These are the grand key words for the to act upon.
If I were not in your midst to aid and council you, the devil would overcome you. I want the innocent to go free— rather spare ten iniquitous among you than than condemn one innocent one. “Fret not thyself because of evil doers.” God will see to it.
[1 line blank]
rose and said all idle rumor and idle talk must be laid aside yet sin must not be covered, especially those sins which are against the law of God and the laws of the country— all who walk disorderly must reform, and any knowing of heinous sins against the law of God, and refuse to expose them, becomes the offender— said she wanted none in this Society who had violated the laws of virtue.
The following persons were receiv’d, to wit.
Sarah Ann Spears Fidelia Cotten [Colton] Mary M. Sawyer Evaline Carter Mary A. Peck Disly Disey Allen Margaret Brush Judith Benjamin Ruth Robey Matilda Fausett Sophia Claridge Mary Holt Rachel Allen Nancy Drysdale Electa Murdock Elizabeth Pierce Sylva Beecher Harriet Pinkam Mary E. Beecher Jane Sherwood Polly Chittendon Mary Lowry Jane F. Pea Mary Dewell Sarah Sweat Lydia Bair Mary Reed Rucinda Hurr [Horr] [p. [53]]

Fanny Crosby Mary Newberry Mary Albridge Lucretia Young Sarah Van [Van Blaracom] Eliza Ann Cheny Mary A. Pearce [Pierce] Prudena Oaks [Prudence Oakes] Rebecca Hoopes Sally M. Clark Ferra Dana Beulah Hoyt Polly J. Younger Priscilla Chase Mary Ann Hadfield Eliza Douglas Mary D. Guimore Adaline Perry Lucinda Dudley Betsey Pedigrue [Pettigrew] Elizabeth Rosin [Rawson] Elizabeth Taylor Meeting adjourn’d to meet in the on the following day. [p. [54]]