Discourse, 29 August 1842

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-29-august-1842/1
Date: August 29, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 29 Aug. 1842. Featured version copied [between 29 Aug. and 2 Sept. 1842] in JS, Journal, Dec. 1841–Dec. 1842, in Book of the Law of the Lord, pp. 183–184; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Revelation, 19 Jan. 1841 [D&C 124].

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 29 August 1842, at a special of in , Illinois, JS spoke about outwitting his enemies. These enemies included the legal officials who were attempting to arrest and extradite him to , as well as and individuals JS associated with him, including , , and . Bennett had accused JS of engaging in illicit sexual relations, alleged that JS had sent to assassinate former Missouri governor , and vowed to help extradite JS from to Missouri. Bennett’s claims might have contributed to JS’s arrest on 8 August; although JS was released on a jurisdictional question, he then went into hiding to avoid extradition. Bennett had also created problems in the eastern . On 8 August, had written JS from , urging JS and other leaders to “put down the slanders of Bennett.”
While JS was in hiding, the held a four-day meeting with in an attempt to resolve differences between him and JS. The apostles strove “to get him to recall his sayings against Joseph . . . but he persisted.” On 20 August, the council “cut off” Pratt from the church. However, JS’s journal suggests that a day later Pratt “signified his intention of coming out in defence of the truth and go to preaching.” JS returned to his home in , at the request of his wife , on 23 August. Three days later, he convened a meeting with members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and discussed plans to hold a conference and send the available elders on missions to foil ’s efforts.
The special conference occurred on 29 August. At ten o’clock that morning, “the Elders assembled in the near the ,” and called on “every Elder who can” to go east in order to counteract ’s “false statements,” preach the gospel, and obtain funds for the temple. JS then spoke, rehearsing the trouble the Saints had had with officials and describing his avoidance of extradition as another victory over them. He then instructed the elders to defend his character and expose the unjust and corrupt actions of and , and he warned , , and that their efforts to oppose him would fail. According to JS’s journal, “Orson Pratt set behind Joseph all the time he was speaking. He looked serious and dejected, but did not betray the least signs of compunction or repentance.” Writing a short time later, recorded that “about 400 Elders have since gone & many others are going.”
recorded an account of JS’s discourse into JS’s journal, which was being kept in the Book of the Law of the Lord, probably on or shortly after 29 August 1842. The entry in the journal appears to be a fair copy. Rather than carrying the large Book of the Law of the Lord with him to the , Clayton likely took notes of the discourse in a smaller notebook or on loose leaves and then used his notes to record an account of the discourse in JS’s journal.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

“He had told them formerly about fighting the Missourians, and about fighting alone. He had not fought them with the sword nor by carnal weapons; he had done it by stratagem or by outwitting them, and there had been no lives lost, and there would be no lives lost if they would hearken to his council. Up to this day God had given him wisdom to save the people who took council. None had ever been killed who abode by his council. At the brethren went contrary to his council, if they had not there lives would have been spared. He has been in all the while, and outwitted s associates and attended to his own business in the all the time. We want to whip the world mentally and they will whip themselves physically. The brethren cant have the tricks played upon them that were done at and , they have seen enough of the tricks of their enemies and know better”. has attempted to destroy himself,— caused all the almost to go in search of him. Is it not enough to put down all the infernal influence of the Devil what we have felt and seen, handled and evidenced of this work of God? But the Devil had influence among the Jews to cause the death of Jesus Christ by hanging between heaven and earth. and others of the same class caused trouble by telling stories to people who would betray me and ‘they must believe these stories because his told him so’! I will live to trample on their ashes with the soles of my feet. I prophecy in the name of Jesus Christ that such shall not prosper, they shall be cut down in their own plans. They would deliver me up Judas like, but a small band of us shall overcome. We dont want or mean to fight with the sword of the flesh but we will fight with the broad Sword of the spirit. Our enemies say our Charter and Writs of are worth nothing. We say they came from the highest authority in the , and we will hold to them. They cannot be disannulled or taken away.”
He then told the brethren what he was going to do, viz; to send all the away and when the mob came there would only be women and children to fight and they would be ashamed, He said
“I dont want you to fight but to go and gather [p. 183]

tens, hundreds and thousands to fight for you. If oppression comes I will then shew them that there is a Moses and a Joshua amongst us; and I will fight them if they dont take off oppression from me, I will do as I have done this time, I will run into the woods. I will fight them in my own way. I will send to call every where through-out the , and let documents be taken along and show to the world the corrupt and oppressive conduct of . and others, that the public may have the truth laid before them. Let the send all who will support the character of the Prophet— the Lords anointed. And if all who go will support my character I prophecy in the name of the Lord Jesus whose servant I am, that you will prosper in your missions. I have the whole plan of the kingdom before me, and no other person has. And as to all that , or can do to prevent me I can kick them off my heels, as many as you can name, I know what will become of them”. He concluded his remarks by saying “I have the best of feelings towards my brethren since this last trouble began, but to the apostates and enemies I will give a lashing every oppertunity and I will curse them.” [p. 184]