D&C 127 — earliest text

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'earliest text' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09).
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] 4 September 1842 • Sunday Sunday 4th. This day President Hyrum Smith & president Wm. Law started for the East accompanied by brothers Erastus Derby & Edwin Woolley. President Joseph sent the following letter to William Clayton by brother Erastus H. Derby. The president wrote it and requested it to be read before the saints when assembled at the Grove near the Temple for preaching which was done according to his request. “September 1st. 1842

1
“To all the saints in Nauvoo.— Forasmuch as the Lord has revealed unto me that my enemies, both of Missouri and this State were again on the pursuit of me; and inasmuch as they pursue me without cause, and have not the least shadow, or coloring of justice, or right on their side, in the getting up of their prosecutions against me; and inasmuch as their pretensions are all founded in falsehood of the blackest die; I have thought it expedient and wisdom in me to leave the place for a short season, for my own safety and the safety of this people. I would say to all those with whom I have business, that I have left my affairs with agents and Clerks, who will transact all business in a prompt and proper manner; and will see that all my debts are cancell’d in due time, by turning out property or otherwise as the case may require, or as the circumstances may admit of. When I learn that the storm is fully blown over, then, I will return to you again:
2
and as for the perils which I am call’d to pass through; they seem but a small thing to me, as the fury and wrath of man have been my common lot all the days of my life; and for what cause, it seems mysterious, unless I was ordained from before the foundation of the world, for some good end, or bad, as you may choose to call it: Judge ye for yourselves, God knoweth all these things whether it be good or bad; but nevertheless, deep water is what I am wont to swim in; it all has become a second nature to me and I feel like Paul, to glory in tribulation, for unto this day, has the God of my fathers delivered me out of them all, and will deliver me from henceforth; for behold and lo! I shall triumph over all my enemies, for the Lord God hath spoken it.
3
Let all the saints rejoice therefore and be exceeding glad, for Israel’s God is their God and he will meet out a just recompence of reward upon the heads of all your oppressors.
4
And again, verily, thus saith the Lord, let the work of my Temple, and all the works which I have appointed unto you, be continued on and not cease; and let your diligence and your perseverence, and patience and your works be redoubled, and you shall in no wise lose your reward saith the Lord of Hosts. And if they persecute you, so persecuted they the prophets and righteous men that were before you: for all this, there is a reward in heaven.
5
And again, I give unto you a word in relation to the baptism for your dead.
6
Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you concerning your dead; Let there be a Recorder, and let him be eye-witness of your baptisms; let him hear with his ears that he may testify of a truth saith the Lord;
7
that in all your recordings, it may be recorded in heaven; that whatsoever you loose bind on earth may be bound in heaven, and whatsoever you loose on earth may be loosed in heaven;
8
for I am about to restore many things to the earth pertaining to the Priesthood saith the Lord of Hosts.
9
And again, let all the Records be had in order, that they may be put in the archives of my holy Temple, to be held in remembrance from generation to generation, saith the Lord of Hosts.
10
I will say to all the saints, that I desired with exceeding great desire, to have address’d them from the Stand, on the subject of baptism for the dead, on the following sabbath: But inasmuch as it is out of my power to do so, I will write the Word of the Lord from time to time, on that subject, and send it you by Mail, as well as many other things.
11
I now close my letter for the present, for the want of more time; for the enemy is on the alert, and as the Savior said, the prince of this world cometh, but he hath nothing in me.
12
Behold! my prayer to God, is, that you all may be saved and I subscribe myself, your servant in the Lord, prophet and Seer of the Church of Jesus Christ, of Latter-Day Saints. Joseph Smith.
