Minutes and Discourse, 9 June 1842

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-9-june-1842/1
Date: June 9, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of Eliza R. Snow

Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, Minutes, and JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 9 June 1842. Featured version copied [ca. 9 June 1842] in Relief Society Minute Book, pp. [61]–[68], handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Nauvoo Relief Society Minute Book.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 9 June 1842, JS delivered a discourse on mercy to the . He opened the society’s eleventh meeting, held in the near the , with prayer and then addressed the assembled women. He began his discourse by reiterating counsel he had given them in March 1842, shortly after the Relief Society was organized. In that discourse, as well as in this 9 June sermon, he expressed concern that some who had been admitted may not have been worthy of membership. He continued his 9 June discourse by counseling the women to be charitable, humble, and merciful. JS briefly interrupted his discourse to give the Relief Society time to receive new members; he then continued his address. He emphasized that the purpose of the Relief Society was not only to relieve the poor, but also to reform the repentant and save souls. He concluded by offering to provide the society with a city lot and an unfinished house they could use to begin building homes for the poor.
As secretary of the Relief Society, recorded an account of JS’s discourse in her minutes for the 9 June 1842 meeting. Although the original loose minutes she took are no longer extant, Snow copied the minutes, including her account of JS’s discourse, into the Relief Society Minute Book, probably shortly after this meeting.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

, June 9th.
J. Smith opened the meeting by pray’r and proceeded to address the congregation on the design of the Institution— said it is no matter how fast the Society increases if all are virtuous— that we must be as particular with regard to the character of members, as when the Society first started— that sometimes persons wish to put themselves into a Society of this kind, when they do not intend to pursue the ways of purity and righteousness, as if the Society would be a shelter to them in their iniquity.
Prest. S. said that henceforth no person shall be admitted but by presenting regular petition signed by two or three members in good standing in the Society— whoever comes in must be of good report.
Harriet Luce and Mary Luce were receiv’d into the Society by recommend.
Objections previously made against Mahala Overton were remov’d— after which Prest Smith continued his address— said he was going to preach mercy Supposing that Jesus Christ and angels should object to us on frivolous things, what would become of us? We must be merciful and overlook small things.
Respecting the reception of Sis. Overton, Prest. Smith It grieves me that there is no fuller fellowship— if one member suffer all feel it— by union of feeling we obtain pow’r with God. Christ said he came to call sinners to repentance and save them. Christ was condemn’d by the righteous jews because he took sinners into his society— he took them upon the principle that they [p. [61]]

repented of their sins. It is the object of this to reform persons, not to take those that are corrupt, but if they repent we are bound to take them and by kindness sanctify and cleanse from all unrighteousness, by our influence in watching over them— nothing will have such influence over people, as the fear of being disfellowship’d by so goodly a Society as this. Then take Sis. O. as Jesus received sinners into his bosom.
Sis. O. In the name of the Lord I now make you free, and from this hour if any thing should be found against you
Nothing is so much calculated to lead people to forsake sin as to take them by the hand and watch over them with tenderness. When persons manifest the least kindness and love to me, O what pow’r it has over my mind, while the opposite course has a tendency to harrow up all the harsh feelings and depress the human mind.
It is one evidence that men are unacquainted with the principle of godliness, to behold the contraction of feeling and lack of charity. The pow’r and glory of Godliness is spread out on a broad principle to throw out the mantle of charity. God does not look on sin with allowance, but when men have sin’d there must be allowance made for them.
All the religious world is boasting of righteousness— tis the doctrine of the devil to retard the human mind and retard our progress, by filling us with selfrighteousness— The nearer we get to our heavenly Father, the more are we dispos’d to look with compassion on perishing souls— to take them upon our shoulders and cast their sins behind our back. [blank] I am going to talk to all this Society— if you would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another.
Prest. S. then refer’d them to the conduct of the Savior when he was taken and crucified &c.
He then made a promise in the name of the [p. [62]]

Lord saying, that soul that has righteousness enough to ask God in the secret place for life, every day of their lives shall live to three score years & ten— We must walk uprightly all day long— How glorious are the principles of righteousness! We are full of selfishness— the devil flatters us that we are very righteous, while we are feeding on the faults of others— We can only live by worshipping our God— all must do it for themselves— none can do it for another. How mild the Savior dealt with Peter, saying “when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren”— at an other time he said to him “lovest thou me? “Feed my sheep”.— If the sisters love the Lord let them feed the sheep and not destroy them. How oft have wise men & women sought to dictate br. Joseph by saying “O if I were br. Joseph I would do this and that.” But if they were in br. Joseph’s shoes, they would find that men could not be compel’d into the kingdom of God, but must be dealt with in long suff’ring— and at last we shall save them. The way to keep all the saints together and keep the work rolling, is to wait with all long suff’ring till God shall bring such character to justice. There should be no license for sin, but mercy should go hand in hand with reproof.
Sisters of this , shall there be strife among you? I will not have it— you must repent and get the love of God. Away with selfrighteousness. The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants— the Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls.
Prest. S. then said that he would give a lot of land to the Society by deeding it to the Treasurer, that the Society may build houses for the poor. He also said he would give a house— frame not finished— said that br. [p. [63]]

will move it on to the aforesaid lot, and the can pay him by giving Orders on the — that it was a good plan to set those to work who are owing widows and thus make an offsett &c. &c.
The following names were receiv’d.
Violetta Burgess Ann Bowberry [Rowberry] Rosanna Lyman Mary Bowberry [Rowberry] Sarah Fisher Charlotte Jenkins Elizabeth Edwards Zilpha Jacobs Mary Moore Charity Bickmore Sabra Prior Mary R. Maxton Marina Prior Mary Ann Stevens Elizabeth Crafton Betsey Foot Flavilla L. Leavitt Jane Jenkins Roxana Huntsman Wealthy Pratt Lucinda E. Cole Agnes Moss Persis Stiles Mary Moss Sarah W. Gibbs Sarah Zundal Catharine Pope Mary Ann Greenwell Phebe Rannals [Reynolds] Mary Ann Green Margaret Smoot Martisha Smith Sarah Bullard Nancy Houghton Elizabeth Mittwell [Withnell] Mary I. Horne Harriet Little Catharine Nicolson Lucy Seeley Eliza Canfield Elizabeth Lemon Anna Demill Lydia Hadlock Elizabeth Maudsley Martha J. Powers Nancy Henderson Maria Clark Margaret Avery Nancy Simpson Elizabeth Gates Elizabeth Browett Lydia Badger Margaret Stow Mary J. Melks Maria Hodson Betsey Bidwell Ann Slater [p. [64]]

Lydia Edwards Mary H. Hoyg Eleanor Edwards Mary Winterbotton Phebe McNall Mary Ann Allen Araminta Vorth [North] Eda Sweat Eunice Cone Mary Henderson Sarah Rawlins Naomi C. Price Julia Owens Mary Wilson Nancy Stewart Amanda Wilson Agnes Wilson Elizabeth Scott Philinda Stanley Lydia M. Luce Elizabeth Hendricks Esther Wood Mahala Dudley Sarah Meeks Mary Ann Maxton Susanna Adams Catharina Wilson Mary Thompson Nancy Karr [Kerr] Elizabeth Wilson Tirzah Chase Emily Wilson Eliza Chase Mary Wilson Nancy Chase Margaret Wilkinson Diana Chase Nancy Ann Smithies Sarah Buthrick [Bathrick] Sarah A. Murply [Murphy] Polly Leach Mary Owins Diana Camp Chara Owens [Owen] Elizabeth Merrills Mary Mitchell Abigail Bradley Abigail Burbank Mary Hustin [Houston] Susanna Wakefield Lydia F. Ann Gibbs Huldah Judd Candace Evans Susanna C. Boyce Jane Judd Elizabeth C. Allen Mary Ives Nancy M. Murphy Mary Jane Morris Talitha C. Garlick Mahala Morris Sarah K. Taylor Mary Blake Catharine Minnerly Lodemia Barnet Catharine Mulliner Elizabeth Helm Margaret Myers [p. [65]]

Mary McIlwrick Martha H. Kelley Wilson Clarissa Smith Sarah I. Jane Weeks Mary Smith Margaret Willis Caroline Smith Lavina Boren Louisa Camfield [Canfield] Alice Ellison Charity Shepherd Hannah A. Cheesebrough Lucinda Kinyun Alice Martin Jane Jones Eliza Jenkins Mary Carter Mary Richardson Mary Tytle [Lytle] Ann Vowles Mary Owen Mary Davis Mrs. Gay Ruth Stoddard Mrs. Sarah Winter Malinda Chipman Sarah Marsden Charlotte Chase Ann Delany Esther Gleason Mrs. Worthington Ann E. Hoskinson Mary Stilly Abigail Woolsey Mrs. Williams Polly Woolsey Mrs. Richards Elmira Meacham Jane Gandolf Polly Meacham [Mecham] Jane Roberts Mary Jane Butterfield Mary Evans Betey A. Elizabeth Ann Burkett Susan Wallace Sarah J. Burkett Margaret Butterfield Catharine Skinner Harriet Roberts Eleanor Taylor Elizabeth Frampton Mary Burkett Sarah Cox Jane Burkett Margaret Empey Mary Ann Bracken Jane A. Foot Elsey Ann Curtiss [Curtis] Mary Allred Lydia M. Luce Nancy W. Allred Hannah M. Swasey Orissa A. Allred Louis Judd Sarah L. Taylor Charity Sharp Mary C. Egbert Mavy Mary Roles [p. [66]]

Eliza Ann Dusette Abigail D. Hovey Abi Salina Burk Sarah Rockwell Jane Tidwell Sarah Remington Susan Strong Katharine Catherine Walker Mary Mayberry Cyntha Yeamans Sophia Anderson Deborah Leithead Sarah H. Head [Sarah Head Bracken] Eliza J. Wilber Mary Head Mary Wall Elizabeth Wilson The following donations were then receiv’d, to wit—
$ Lucinda E. Cole .. 50 Mrs. Chase .. 75 Elizabeth Romley [Romney] .. 75 Mary Rollins 1, 00 Roxana Repsher 2, 25 Mrs. Curtis 1, .50 Maria C. Perry .. 50 Maria Scholes 1, 87 Cyrena Merrills [Merrill] .. 31 Albina Merrills [Merrill] .. 25 Rhoda Bentley .. 50 Lodemia Barnet .. 25 Mary Ann Peck .. 25 Mary Greenwell .. 25 Amanda Rogers 1, 00 Diantha Billings .. 25 Sophronia Drake .. 37 Hannah Smith .. 50 Sarah Head .. 75 Loisa Pratt .. 50 Hannah Pierce 1, 00 Mary Woolley .. 50 [p. [67]]

$ Elmira Miller 1, 25 Unknown— .. 25 ditto .. 50 Philena Stanley 1, 50 Jemima Newcomb 4, 00 Julius Guinand 2. 00 Mrs. Mary Felshaw 1, 00 1, 00 Mary Smith 1, 87 Ann Bosley 1, 50 [p. [68]]