Discourse, 17 March 1842–A

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-17-march-1842-a/1
Date: March 17, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of Eliza R. Snow

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 17 Mar. 1842. Featured version copied [ca. 17 Mar. 1842] in Relief Society Minute Book, pp. 7–8; handwriting of ; CHL. Includes redactions. For more complete source information, see the source note for Nauvoo Relief Society Minute Book.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Minutes and Discourse, 17 Mar. 1842.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

the meeting was address’d by Prest. Smith, to illustrate the object of the — that the Society of Sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor— searching after objects of charity, and in administering to their wants— to assist; by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the female community, and save the Elders the trouble of rebuking; that they may give their time to other duties &c. in their public teaching.
Prest. Smith further remark’d that an organization to show them how to go to work would be sufficient. He propos’d that the Sisters elect a presiding officer to preside over them, and let that presiding officer choose two Counsellors to assist in the duties of her Office— that he would them to preside over the Society— and let them preside just as the Presidency, preside over the ; and if [p. 7]

they need his instruction— ask him, he will give it from time to time.
Let this Presidency serve as a constitution— all their decisions be considered law; and acted upon as such.
If any Officers are wanted to carry out the designs of the Institution, let them be appointed and set apart, as , &c. are among us.
The minutes of your meetings will be precedents for you to act upon— your Constitution and law.
He then suggested the propriety of electing a Presidency to continue in office during good behavior, or so long as they shall continue to fill the office with dignity &c. like the of the .— [p. 8]