Discourse, 26 May 1842

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-26-may-1842/1
Date: May 26, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of Eliza R. Snow

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 26 May 1842. Featured version copied [ca. 26 May 1842] in Relief Society Minute Book, [51]–[53]; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Nauvoo Relief Society Minute Book.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On the evening of 26 May 1842, JS spoke to the about showing mercy to individuals who had sinned and helping them to reform. He gave this discourse at the organization’s ninth meeting, held on the second floor of JS’s in , Illinois. Accompanied by his wife , president of the Female Relief Society, he arrived late and began his sermon shortly after entering.
JS began by reading the fourteenth chapter of Ezekiel. He then counseled the assembled women to take responsibility for their own salvation. He especially emphasized being merciful to those in the community who had erred and encouraging them to repent. Although vague, these instructions seem to reference women in who had been seduced and deceived by and other men who told them their immoral actions were sanctioned by JS. Two days earlier, on 24 May, Sarah Miller, Margaret Nyman, and Matilda Nyman gave depositions before the Nauvoo high council as part of the council’s investigation into unvirtuous acts committed by men and women in Nauvoo. In his 26 May discourse, JS also directed the women of the Relief Society to “put a double watch over the tongue” and to spare the from retribution from those outside the religion by not openly or publicly discussing sin or other details about their community.
After JS concluded his discourse, addressed the Relief Society as its president, offering similar remarks, though she placed more emphasis on the public repudiation of sin. She agreed with JS’s direction to abandon “idle rumor and idle talk” and insisted that “sin must not be covered, especially those sins which are against the law of God and the laws of the country.” She warned that “all who walk disorderly must reform, and any knowing of heinous sins against the law of God, and refuse to expose them, becomes the offender.”
recorded an account of JS’s discourse in the minutes she kept as secretary for the Relief Society. Her original notes of the meeting are apparently not extant, but she recorded the minutes, including the discourse, in the Relief Society Minute Book, presumably sometime shortly after the 26 May 1842 meeting.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

J. Smith rose, read the 14th Chap. of Ezekiel— said the Lord had declar’d by the prophet that the people should each one stand for himself and depend on no man or men in that state of corruption of the Jewish church— that righteous persons could only deliver their own souls— applied it to the present state of the — said if the people departed from the Lord, they must fall— that they were depending on the prophet hence were darkened in their minds from neglect of themselves— envious toward the innocent, while they afflict the virtuous with their shafts of envy.
There is another error which opens a door for the adversary to enter. As females possess refin’d feelings and sensitiveness, they are also subject to an overmuch zeal which must ever prove dangerous, and cause them to be rigid in a religious capacity— should be arm’d with mercy notwithstanding the iniquity among us. Said he had been instrumental in bringing it to light— melancholy and awful that so many are under the condemnation of the devil & going to perdition.
With deep feeling said that they are our fellows— we lov’d them once. Shall we not encourage them to reformation?
We have not forgivn them seventy times— perhaps we have not forgiven them once. There is now a day of salvation to such as repent and reform— they should be cast out from this , yet we should woo them to return to God lest they escape not the damnation of hell!
When there is a mountain top there also is a vally— we should act in all things an a proper medium— to every immortal spirit. Notwithstanding the unworthy are among us, the virtuous should not from self-importance grieve and oppress needlessly those unfortunate ones, even [p. [51]]

these should be encourag’d to hereafter live to be honored by this who are the best portions of community. Said he had two things to recommend to the Society, to put a double watch over the tongue. No organiz’d body can exist without this at all. All organiz’d bodies have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and difficulties— the object is to make those not so good, equal with the good and ever hold the of pow’r which will influence to virtue and goodness. Should chasten and reprove and keep it all in silence, not even mention them again, then you will be established in power, virtue and holiness and the wrath of God will be turn’d away. One request to the and Society, that you search yourselves— the tongue is an unruly member— hold your tongues about things of no moment,— a little tale will set the world on fire. At this time the truth on the guilty should not be told openly— Strange as this may seem, yet this is policy. We must use precaution in bringing sinners to justice lest in exposing these heinous sins, we draw the indignation of a world upon us (and to their imagination justly too)
It is necessary to hold an influence in the world and thus spare ourselves an extermination; and also accomplish our end in spreading the gospel or holiness in the earth.
If we were brought to desolation, the disobedient would find no help. There are some who are obedient yet men cannot steady the ark— my arm can not do it— God must steady it. To the iniquitous show yourselves merciful. I am advis’d by some of the heads of the to tell the Relief Society to be virtuous— but to save the church from desolation and the sword beware, be still, be prudent. Repent, reform but do it in a way to not destroy all around you. I do not want to cloak iniquity— all things contrary to the will [p. [52]]

of God, should be cast from us, but dont do more hurt than good with your tongues— be pure in heart— Jesus designs to save the people out of their sins. Said Jesus ye shall do the work which ye see me do— These are the grand key words for the to act upon.
If I were not in your midst to aid and council you, the devil would overcome you. I want the innocent to go free— rather spare ten iniquitous among you than than condemn one innocent one. “Fret not thyself because of evil doers.” God will see to it. [p. [53]]