Discourse, 1 May 1842, as Reported by Oliver Olney

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-1-may-1842-as-reported-by-oliver-olney/1
Date: May 1, 1842
Handwriting: Handwriting of Oliver Olney

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 1 May 1842. Version copied [ca. 1 May 1842] in Oliver Olney, Notebook, Apr.–Aug. 1842; handwriting of ; Oliver H. Olney Papers, Western American Collection, Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Yale University, New Haven, CT.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 1 May 1842, as Reported by Willard Richards.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

He will tell them of the gospel plan He will tel them of the State of their soles He will tell them of being With power from on high He will reason both long and loud To show the key word of Gods power The mind that does desire to arise In the Estimation of Joseph Smith He must let him have his money And he will lead him threw The Golden gate of Heaven But those that kept their money back He says he will leave them far behind [p. [1]]

That they with him will have no home To enter Threw the Pearly Gate In to a Heavenly rest. A rest of which the Prophits spoke If they it understood If they it understood Between them and Joseph is a contrast The Prophit spoke of being With power from on high They spoke of power that was of God They spoke of works By it performed To heal the sick by the prayer of faith To cast out Deavils raise the Dead And well declare the Council of God This in connection with all the gifts Compose the endowment Of those sent to preach But says Joseph Smith If you with me desire to share In blessings that is good. On me depend And I will take you all a long If I for you do say to do You in return must do for me In money Goods and Chatels Or I will leave you far behind As the of the Kingdom of God Like the Apostle Peter I possess Thus I can save you or dam you as I pleas Such Preaching and teaching As I of late have herd Denotes the degraded situation That the is in I now ajourn for afternoon [p. [2]]