Discourse, 17 May 1843–B

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-17-may-1843-b/1
Date: May 17, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 17 May 1843]. Featured version copied [ca. 19 May 1843] in William Clayton, Journal, 25 Apr. 1843–24 Sept. 1844, p. [18]; handwriting of ; William Clayton, Journals, 1842–1846, CHL. For more complete source information, see the Source Note for Instruction, 16 May 1843.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On the evening of 17 May 1843, JS preached a discourse in , Illinois, in response to a sermon given by Samuel Prior, a visiting Methodist preacher, who had been “invited to preach” earlier that evening before a “large and respectable” congregation of Latter-day Saints. Prior wrote an article that was published in the Times and Seasons shortly after JS gave the sermon featured here. After Prior delivered his unrecorded discourse, JS sought to correct Prior’s interpretation of Genesis 2 and the “eternal duration of matter”—doing so “mildly, politely, and affectingly,” according to Prior.
During his remarks, JS questioned the King James Bible’s language in Genesis 2:7, which states, “The Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.” According to ’s notes of the discourse, JS also discussed aspects of Hebrew in his argument. JS argued that the “breath of life” referred to Adam’s spirit, and he included comments on the Hebrew word ruach (breath or spirit), arguing that when the word is applied to Eve, life should be rendered lives.
Genesis 2:7 prompted pronouncements from religious thinkers of JS’s era on the nature of bodies and souls and on their duration throughout eternity. Methodist minister Adam Clarke, for instance, wrote that “man is a compound being, having a body and a soul, distinctly and separately created; the body out of the dust of the earth, the soul immediately breathed from God himself.” A widely circulated nineteenth-century theological dictionary stated that the “generally received opinion” held that the human soul “began to exist in his mother’s womb.” Though it is impossible to reconstruct Prior’s sermon, JS’s response makes clear that Prior used his sermon to engage this topic. JS responded to Prior and offered his own thoughts on the nature of the human spirit.
JS’s own teachings about the soul and matter differed from those of other Christians of his day in some important respects. Common teachings stated that the soul consisted of “the vital, immaterial, active substance, or principle, in man.” For some years, JS had taught that all beings were composed of eternal matter. A May 1833 revelation stated that “the Elements are eternal.” On 30 August 1840, JS preached a “discourse on Eternal Judgement and the Eternal Duration of matter.” In 1842, JS published an editorial directly opposing the traditional idea that the spirit was immaterial. He argued, much as he did in the discourse featured here, that “the body is supposed to be organized matter, and the spirit by many is thought to be immaterial, without substance. With this latter statement we should beg leave to differ—and state that spirit is a substance; that it is material, but that it is more pure, elastic, and refined matter than the body.” Also in 1842, the published Book of Abraham stated that “the Gods formed man from the dust of the ground, and took his spirit, that is the man’s spirit, and put it into him, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul.” The discourse featured here shares the Book of Abraham’s emphasis on the eternal nature of humankind and the idea that spirits were embodied at birth.
was present during JS’s discourse and took notes. However, based on the uniformity of the ink flow and character formation in his journal, it appears that Clayton created the entries covering 14 May through most of 19 May in one sitting. It is likely the entries were based upon earlier, nonextant notes.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

The 7th verse of c 2 of Genesis ought to read God breathed into Adam his spirit or breath of life. but when the word “ruach” applies to Eve it should be translated lives.
Speaking of eternal duration of matter he said. There is no such thing as immaterial matter. All spirit is matter but is more fine or pure and can only be discerned by purer eyes We cant see it but when our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter. [p. [18]]