Instruction, 16 May 1843

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/instruction-16-may-1843/1
Date: May 16, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

JS, Instruction, [, Hancock Co., IL, 16 May 1843]. Featured version copied [ca. 19 May 1843] in William Clayton, Journal, 25 Apr. 1843–24 Sept. 1844, pp. [13]–[16]; handwriting of ; William Clayton, Journals, 1842–1846, CHL.
Blank book measuring 6¼ × 4 × 1 inches (16 × 10 × 3 cm) and containing 156 leaves bound in brown leather. There are two flyleaves in the front of the volume and two in the back. The recto of the first flyleaf in the front was inscribed by : “Journal No 1”. An archival label pasted onto the spine reads, “Journal by Wm. Clayton 1843–4”. Embossed in gold leaf on the bottom of the spine is “3”.
used the journal to record daily entries from 25 April 1843 to 24 September 1844. Shortly after Clayton finished making entries in the volume, he apparently loaned or gave it to the Church Historian’s Office (now CHL), and by winter 1845–1846 the office staff began using the journal to inform their work on JS’s multivolume history, during which time use marks were added. The journal was listed in inventories that the Church Historian’s Office produced in the nineteenth century. Sometime in the twentieth century, three of Clayton’s journals became part of the papers of Joseph Fielding Smith, who was church historian and recorder from 1921 to 1970. In 1970, when Smith became the president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, these journals became part of the First Presidency’s papers. In 2017 the Office of the First Presidency formally transferred this journal to the CHL. A sixteen-page account written by Clayton of JS’s activities just before his death has been inserted in the inside front cover of the volume.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 16 May 1843 at the residence of and in , Illinois, JS instructed the Johnsons and “on the .” Benjamin Johnson recalled that “in the evening,” JS invited him and Melissa “to come and sit down, for he wished to marry us according to the law of the Lord. I thought it a joke, and said I should not marry my wife again, unless she courted me, for I did it all, the first time. He chided my levity, told me he was in earnest, and so it proved; for we stood up and were by the Holy Spirit of promise.” Contemporaneous records, however, show that when he later recounted the story, Johnson conflated when he first heard this teaching and when he and Melissa were actually sealed. According to ’s journal, the couple was “united in an ” on 20 October 1843.
JS taught that if a man and a woman were sealed as husband and wife by the power of the priesthood, their marriage would continue beyond death, and they would live together in marriage in the highest level of heaven. His teachings included the idea that couples properly sealed would have “children in the resurrection.” Based on JS’s statement to that he knew in whom he could confide, it seems he expected the Johnsons not to discuss this doctrine with others.
was present during JS's instruction and took notes. However, in view of the uniformity of the ink flow and character formation in his journal, it appears that Clayton created the entries covering 14 May through most of 19 May in one sitting. It is likely the entries were based upon earlier notes that are no longer extant.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

He put his hand on my knee and says “your life is hid with Christ in God.” and so is many others”. Addressing [p. [13]]

says he “nothing but the unpardonable sin can prevent him (me) from inheriting eternal glory for he is up by the power of the unto eternal life having taken the step which is necessary for that purpose.” He said that except a man and his wife enter into an and be married for eternity while in this probation by the power and authority of the Holy priesthood they will cease to increase when they die (i e) they will not have any children in the resurrection, but those who are married by the power & authority of the priesthood in this life & continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost will continue to increase & have children in the [p. [14]]

. The unpardonable sin is to shed innocent blood or be accessory thereto. All other sins will be visited with judgement in the flesh and the spirit be delivered to the buffetings of Satan untill the day of the Lord Jesus.” I feel desirous to be united in an to my wife and pray that it may soon be.
prest. J. said that the way he knew in whom to confide. God told him in whom he might place confidence. He also said that in the celestial glory there was three heavens or degrees, and in order to obtain the highest a man must enter into this order of the and if he dont he cant obtain it. He may enter into the other but that is the end of his kingdom [p. [15]]

he cannot have an increase. [p. [16]]