Revised Minutes and Discourses, 23 April–circa 8 May 1843, First Printed Draft

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/revised-minutes-and-discourses-23-april-circa-8-may-1843-first-printed-draft/1
Date: May 8, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of John Taylor

Revised Minutes, and JS, Discourses, , Hancock Co., IL, [23 Apr.–ca. 8 May 1843]. Two fragments typeset and amended [23 Apr.–ca. 3 May 1843]; printed text with emendations in the handwriting of ; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Revised Minutes and Discourses, 23 Apr.–ca. 8 May 1843.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

View Full Bio
>
President Joseph Smith then made some remarks in relation to the standing of the , and requested it to be put to the congregation, to know whether they received them as their presidents, and could uphold them in their office or not. It was then decided by the that they should still retain their standing.
He then spoke of the propriety of sending the , or some of them, amongst the of the , to obtain stock for the , stating that the time had now arrived to build it.
n
men of wealth & influence from abroad and it is necessary that we should have such a place>
He also stated that an opportunity would be given to all the who hae been in any difficulty in the branches, to have a hearing.
The following questions were then put to the Conferenc:
Pres’t. Joseph Smith said the next thing in order was to take into consideration the propriety of sending as many of the abroad to raise means for the building of the , as were able to go. He continued and made remarks upon the propriety of, and necessity for for it, and the manner in which they should proceed, also how those who gave them means should make a return thereof to the Trustee in Trust.
It was nominated by , and seconded by , (with amendment remarks by explanation,) that the twelve be appointed for this mission, and that an article be prepared by to-morrow, setting forth their duties, and the nature of their mission. Some very useful remarks were then made by Pres’t. Smith on the subject of the twelve going abroad and other matters of interest,
Hymn sung—Intermission one hour.
During intermission Pres’t. made some remarks on thieving, &c., refering to our article in the last No. of the Wasp. He stated that there was a gang of thieves down the who were plundering on the Credit of the Church that he had an interview with a man who has been convinced of the error of such conduct and had come here to escape them. [p. [1]]

[verso of first fragment blank]

They say they have a right to steal from any man who is not a member of the , if they consecrate two-thirds of it. I have also been informed that They are making bogus money. They had three or four amongst them who denied their faith, and would talk, they & they threatened to rip up their bowels and give them to the Cat-Fish, and that was their Oath. I wish to warn you all not to be duped by such men, for they are the Gadianters of these days. He then ead an affiavit made by him some time ago, also, the article at large. The man said they referred to the Bible, and Book of Covenants, to support their doctrines, but no such doctrines are taught there and Book of Mormon. He stated that these were the little Foxes that spoil the vine, and that all these things were used to decoy the foolish and unwary. I have said that the curse of God will rest upon such. I will mention two names David Holbrooks and . I went to them and asked them if they were robbing for a livelihood. Holbrook said they did, but not from the Brethren. would not aknowledge. I subsequently when they came to me ordered them out of my house. David asked me to forgive him and he lifted up his hands and swore he would never do it again. Soon after he was found stealing salt, he then stole a Skiff and took his family down the , stole a Barrel of Flour from Curtis and sold it at . would not promise to quit but said he would go to . I tell you to day the man that steals shall not long after be brought to the Penitentiary. They will soon be brought to condign punishment. I demand in the presence of God that you will exert your wit and your power to bring such characters to justice, if you do not the curse of God will rest upon you, such things would ruin any people. Should I catch a latter-day saint stealing, he is the last man to whom I would shew mercy.
Pres. Joseph Smith arose, and said, I think it best to continue this subject. I want all the to help to make it known abroad what the opinion of the is. Such things never have been tolerated, I despise a theif above ground, because I know that he would be a detriment to my cause, and would steal my horse when I wanted it, & run away.
It has been said that some were afraid to disclose what they know of these secret combinations, consequently I issued this proclamation which you may read in the Times and Seasons. If any man is afraid let him come to me, and I will protect him necessary to make a proclamation . [p. [2]]

[verso of second fragment blank]