Discourse, 27 August 1843, as Reported by Willard Richards

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-27-august-1843-as-reported-by-willard-richards/1
Date: August 27, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Willard Richards...

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 27 Aug. 1843]. Featured version copied [ca. 27 Aug. 1843] in JS, Journal, 1842–1844, bk. 3, pp. [69]–[75]; handwriting of ; JS Collection, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, 1842–1844.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On the morning of Sunday, 27 August 1843, JS delivered a discourse in the near the site for the in , Illinois, on the different orders of the . He began the meeting by discussing a controversy surrounding ’s purported role in a conspiracy to deliver JS to authorities in . He then read chapter seven of the epistle to the Hebrews from the New Testament, which he had referenced in a discourse given a month earlier, before beginning his formal address.
Four accounts of the discourse are extant and are featured here. recorded an account of the discourse in a 27 August entry in JS’s journal. and each transcribed distinct versions of the discourse, Clayton into his journal under the date of 27 August and Richards into a notebook he titled “Scriptural Items.” also inscribed the discourse into a collection of sermons that he kept in the back of his journal.
According to ’s account, JS retranslated the word salem from Hebrews chapter 7 as “shalom,” meaning peace, and explicated the term before explaining the different orders or forms of the priesthood and connecting the highest form to his retranslation of the word. JS taught that there were three orders of priesthood in a hierarchy of power: the Levitical, or ; the Abrahamic, or patriarchal; and the , which culminated in a “fullness” of the priesthood. This teaching expanded the ’ understanding of priesthood authority from the simpler dichotomy of Aaronic and Melchizedek priesthood he had taught previously. In 1840, for example, JS taught, “There are two priesthoods spoken of in the scriptures, viz, the Melchisadeck and the Aaronic or Levitical Altho there are two priesthoods, yet the Melchisadeck priesthood comprehends the Aaronic or Levitical priesthood and is the Grand head and holds the hig[h]est Authority which pertains to the priesthood.”
The four different versions accentuate different aspects of JS’s discourse. ’s account reports that JS connected the Aaronic order of priesthood to the Law of Moses and the Abrahamic order of priesthood to and families. Clayton and both recorded that he taught that the highest order of priesthood—that of Melchizedek, the king of Salem—was not given by man and held the key to “endless lives.” According to Willard Richards’s and Franklin D. Richards’s accounts, JS insisted that sacrifice, such as Abraham’s willingness to sacrifice his son Isaac, was necessary to attain this highest order of priesthood and “the of the kingdom of an endless life.” states that JS also argued that sectarians did not lay claim to the highest priesthood, the same held by the king of Salem, and were therefore unable to save anyone.
Annotation that appears in ’s version of the discourse is not repeated in corresponding locations in the versions by Clayton, Franklin D. Richards, or Burgess.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Joseph said 2 weeks to day something said about —vote taken to take away his . on account. of a report brought by from .—
The letter is one of the most evasive things.— and carries with it a design to hide the truth.
Ill. Aug—18. 1843
in answer to — of the 15.— inst .— Has any man been concerned in a conspiracy—to delivr Joseph Smith to ?— if so whoo?— [p. [69]]

Read 7th. Hebrews.
Salem is designed for a hebrew term. it should be Shiloam . . . which signifies Righteousness & peace. as it is, it is nothing, neither Hebrew. Greek. Latin french. or any other
To all those who are dis-posd to say to set up stakes for the almighty— will come short of the glory of god.
To become a joint heir of the heirship of the son he must put away all his tradition
I bear record this morning that all the combined powers of earth & hell shall not over come this boy—
If I have sinned I have sinned outwardly— but surely I have [p. [70]]

contemplated the things of God.
told an anecdote of the Episcopalian priest— who said he had the — but not of — and bore this testimony that I never have found the man who claimed the priesthood of Melchisideck.
The law was given under Aaron for the purpose of pouring out Judgments— and destructions.
The sectarian world are going to hell.— by. 100? 1000? 1000 000?
3 grand orders of referred to there . . .
1st. King of Shiloam.— power & authority over that of Abraham holding the key of [p. [71]]

the power of endless life.—— angels desire to loock into it. but they have set up to many stakes. god cursed the chldrn [children] of Israel because they would not receive the last law from Moses.
by the offering of Isaac.— if a man would attain— he must sacrifice all to attain. to the of the kingdom of an endless life
what was the power of Melchisedick twas not. — &c— a king and a priest to the most high Good [God]. a perfect law of Theocracy— holding keys of power & blessings stood as God to give laws to the people. administering endless lives to the sons and daughters of Adam, [p. [72]]

kingly powers. of anointing.— Abram says Melchsidek.— away I have a .—
Salvation could not come to the world without the mediation of Jesus Christ.
how shall god come to the rescue of this generation. he shall send Elijah law reveald to moses in Horeb— never was reveald to the Children of Israel
and he shall reveal the covenants to the hearts of the fathers to the childrn and teh the childrn to the fathers.— & sealing.— calld elected and made sure [p. [73]]

without father &c. a which holds the priesthood by right from the Eternal Gods.— and not by descent from father and mother
2d Priesthood. authority finish that . and god will fill it with power.
3d Priesthood.
Priests made without an oath but the Priesthood of is by oath and covenant.
Holy Ghost.
jesus christ— men have to suffer that they might come up on Mt. Zion. [p. [74]]

exalted above the heavens——
I know a man— that has been caught up to the 3d heavns— & [p. [75]]