Minutes and Discourses, 6–7 April 1843, as Reported by William Clayton

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourses-6-7-april-1843-as-reported-by-william-clayton/1
Date: April 6, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

Special conference of the church, Minutes, and JS, Discourses, [, Hancock Co., IL, 6–7 Apr. 1843]; handwriting of ; ten pages; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL. Includes redactions and dockets.
One leaf and two bifolia measuring 10 × 8 inches (25 × 20 cm) and ruled with twenty-six horizontal gray lines per page. On the recto of the first leaf, the bottom three lines were marked by light brush strokes of yellow, green, and red paint, which precluded inscription of the minutes on that portion of the page. Between and around the strokes, wrote names and numerical calculations that appear to be unrelated to the minutes. After Clayton inscribed the minutes, the document was folded for filing. When the conference minutes were edited for publication in April and early May 1843, redactions and partial pagination were added.
The minutes were docketed by , who served as scribe to JS from 1842 to 1844 and as temple recorder from 1842 to 1846. At a later time, an unidentified clerk added to Clayton’s docket. The docket was further expanded by , who served as JS’s scribe from 1843 to 1844 and as clerk to the church historian and recorder from 1845 to 1865. Clayton’s docket was expanded again by Jonathan Grimshaw, who served as a clerk in the Church Historian’s Office (now CHL) from 1853 to 1856. In the mid-twentieth century, the document was included in a miscellaneous minutes collection that was a vestige of a genre-based filing method used by the Church Historian’s Office in the first half of the twentieth century. This document genre collection contained many documents that subsequently formed the basis for the General Church Minutes collection that was cataloged in 1994. The document’s dockets and its inclusion within the General Church Minutes collection indicate continuous institutional custody.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

From 6 through 9 April 1843 in , Illinois, JS presided at a special of the . Latter-day Saints considered the conference a “Jubilee” because the occasion marked the thirteenth anniversary of the church’s founding on 6 April 1830 and the beginning of its fourteenth year; they were apparently referring to and adapting the biblical seven-year sabbatical cycle. The four-day event was held on the “platform of the ,” a temporary floor that was installed on the main level in October 1842 for worship services. The speakers at the conference delivered their discourses from a portable stand, while listeners were arrayed in chairs across the floor.
On 6 April 1843, , president of the , opened the initial, midday meeting of the conference at 11:30 a.m. because JS was detained in the mayor’s court. When the meeting began, listeners covered about three-fourths of the floor. After the choir sang a hymn and offered a prayer, delivered a discourse on the concept of resurrection until 12:00 p.m. JS had arrived at 11:50 a.m., and he took the stand after Pratt finished his discourse. JS announced an agenda for the business portion of the conference, which took place during the midday and afternoon sessions on 6 April and the morning session on 7 April. First, he planned to present the “for trial,” as he termed it, asking for a sustaining vote for him and his counselors, and . Next, he intended to address the inefficient process of and missionaries collecting donations for the and the , an uncontrolled system that resulted in many donations not being deposited with JS as the church’s trustee-in-trust nor with his clerk . Finally, JS stated that the agenda would include an opportunity for missionaries to appeal the decisions of ecclesiastical trials held outside of .
The meeting proceeded as outlined, beginning with a sustaining vote for members of the First Presidency. During the remainder of the midday session, JS gave extended comments on the second item of business, proposing that the system of gathering funds for the and be amended so that members of the be designated as the only agents authorized to collect donations. After JS finished his comments, the conference voted to accept the proposal, and conference attendees discussed implementation of the plan. The choir then sang from 1:30 to 2:00 p.m., and closed the meeting with a prayer, after which attendees were dismissed for an hour break.
Since JS was again detained for unspecified reasons, opened the afternoon meeting at 3:00 with a statement on the problem of stealing among some church members who claimed to have the First Presidency’s tacit approval for their activities. JS then gave his second discourse. After continuing the subject of stealing in and condemning the thieves, he instructed church members not to settle in and encouraged those currently living there to relocate to . He also spoke on the signs preceding the second coming of Jesus Christ. At 5:50 p.m., the choir sang, and ended the session with prayer.
The following morning at 10:00, the conference reopened with a hymn by the choir and a prayer by . JS was “rather hoarse from Speaking so long yesterday” and said that “he would use the boys lungs to day.” With presiding, the conference gave permission to missionaries to appeal decisions from ecclesiastical trials, and then Young appointed to preside over church in various cities. For the remainder of the meeting, JS’s clerk conducted a public investigation of the ’s management of church funds. JS then “statd that the business of the confernce had closed. & the rem[ai]nder of the confernce would be devoted to instruction.” At 12:30 p.m., the choir sang again, and Young adjourned the meeting with prayer.
was appointed clerk of the conference and took the minutes featured here of the business deliberations and discourses on 6 and 7 April 1843. Clayton apparently endeavored to take notes while the discourses were being given; his hasty, on-the-spot note-taking is evidenced by incomplete sentences and a lack of contextual information about who was speaking or transitions between meetings. Another of JS’s scribes, , also recorded accounts of JS’s two 6 April discourses; these two accounts are also featured here as Discourse, 6 April 1843–A and Discourse, 6 April 1843–B. Richards presumably kept rough notes that he later copied, with minimal polishing in the process, into JS’s journal. In addition, an unknown Latter-day Saint made an account of JS’s doctrinal comments on the second coming of Jesus Christ. The polished nature of this account indicates that the unknown scribe reconstructed JS’s words after the fact from notes or from memory or both. Although the original source for his account is not known, church member copied the text into his notebook sometime after his arrival in in mid-April 1843. This account is also featured here under Discourse, 6 April 1843–B. Annotation that appears in Clayton’s version of the minutes is not repeated in corresponding locations in the other featured versions.
JS requested that the minutes of the 6 April 1843 business meetings be circulated as broadly as possible so that church members outside would understand that the apostles were the only agents authorized to collect donations for the and the . In the weeks after the meeting, JS’s scribes expanded ’s official minutes and accounts of discourses. The revised minutes and discourses appeared in the 1 May 1843 issue of the Times and Seasons and are featured separately in this volume.
During the remainder of the conference, ’s minute-taking became more sporadic; he focused primarily on recording doctrinal comments made by apostle and JS during the 7 April afternoon and the 8 April morning sessions. Because Clayton recorded these minutes and discourses on sheets of paper separate from the 6–7 April minutes, they are featured separately herein. He apparently did not take minutes during the 8 April afternoon session or the concluding 9 April morning session, presumably because JS did not participate in those meetings.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

6 April 1843, midday session
read, 2 Epistle Peter 3rd. chapter. been a long time out of practice, fear & trembling, solicited the second coming of Christ or the resurrection, shall not confine myself these subjects if there are others present themselves shall not limit, subject of importance, mankind had discovered that they were in a lost & fallen, were a appointed unto death. God showed that there was an hereafter, that they were not always to sleep in the grave They would call upon the Lord, revelations were given, taught to look forward unto the great & glorious day, when the redeemer should make his second advent, then they should receive their bodies again, this caused them to rejoice, bear persecution, sing songs of joy, Job says— though he in the depths of misery & sorrow, yet he looked forward with hope though worms should destroy his body &c, should have bodies of flesh & bones, many say the systems are constantly changing.
We admit that flesh and blood united will not inherit the , We have no evidence that flesh & bones will not referred to Ezekial ch 37— I dont say that they will be confined on this earth after the resurrection.——
Prs J. we all ought to be thankful for the privilege 1st. to ascertain the standing
prejudice against building the . The are required to give stress to the . This is the most important matter for the time being. There is no place in this town where respicteble men can go to respose themselves [p. [1]]

.
been sick. last he attended was when the corner stone was laid, was then nigh death,— from that time have had no health, no doubt many of this conference have had feelings, circumstances were calculated to produce feelings, My own confidence in this work has been unchanged, I have the same feelings now, his excitements I have no doubt— no such thing ever took place. The things I entertained about him from his first entrance I had told my family to gaurd that fellow for he will one day make a rupture. when it came I was not disapointed. My feelings were always the same concerning him. I never placed any confidense in him. He has threatened me if I did not join with him, if I did not change my cours I might look for consequences (letter)— he would seek my destruction.— I have not been an active member for 4 years, I have not been able, am not this moment. My constitution is reviving, increses of health, strenth, It is my wish to serve you in any capacity they may wish, that my health &c will admit of. Whatever feelings you have I hope you will express them. I will take them out of the road if I can if I cant I cant help it.
—Joseph
The burthen has rested upon the shoulders of a few. The have had too great latitude to practice fraud. by receiving donations and never making report, the has suffered loss. I am opposed to any man, if I can the conference devise sure means to bind them firmer than the pillars of heaven. The were always honest. I never knew that the 12 had any wages at all. They have gone when they were sent & have labored with their hands. If we send them into the world I want to bind, up the Twelve, solid— put them into bonds.
Let this conference— no man shall pay any money unto their hands only as he furnishes evidences that can be immediately forwarded to the Trustee in Trust so that when the agents return it can be compared with the records if they dont agree— let him be set down as guilty— The Twelve are sufficient to have the Agency. And stop every man for using the money they receive the money for the . This system opens a wide field for every kind of imposition. Any man can assume the name of a Mormon and gather his pockets full of money and go to . Many complaints come to me of money being sent which I never received. There is one man I want to expose to the con he is a good man.— — the two first letters. some person had appropriated $25,— had received money for his brother, put it together forgot to take the church money out of the bag. he would not let him have it. had paid more for his expenses than he ought to do [p. [2]]

The money was never handed over. I was treated very politely. said he did not know at the time that there was any money in the bag, & he paid it out— he had none now. did not give me any understanding that he would pay me the money. his brother said he had money enough he said he should not be out of money again. consequently he has $20 and some dried fruit— I give this as an ensample of 1000 instances. We cannot give an account to satisfy the people or the church book unless something is done. I would suggest the propriety of your saying that no money should ever be sent by any man except it be some one whom you have appointed as . Yourselves are responsible if you put it into other hands than a duly authorised Agent. Every thing that falls into our hands shall be appropriated to the very thing it was designed for.
Next it is wrong for the church to make a bridge of my nose in appropriating their funds. The church demanded of me securities which are lodged as law directs. I am responsible for all that comes into my hands. Next the are bound in $2000. with good securities. If they appropriated any property where it ought not they are liable. The people run to the T. C. with the property every day and thus make a bridge over my nose, I am not responsible, If you put it into the hands of the T. C. I nor my know nothing of it The ought not to suffer boys to use the property as they see fit. Your duty to listen to my instructions. If you have confidence shew it, or put some other one in my place. Desire that a knowledge may go abroad from this con that the are appointed to goe on the mission to collect funds. and that minutes go abroad in such a form as those abroad may know how to send their funds safe or bring it themselves.
told Anecdote of . I now make my apology to all the world for being angry with for saying that was nobody. I have been sorry for it ever since. [p. [3]]

All property ought to go through the hands of the T. in T. there has been complaints of the being partial for appropriating property for their children when others were hungry &c— One complaint has been made by and makes report that there has been partiality— & I now call upon him to make that report before the public if he dare. made remarks that he was not fully prepared but was able to prove from the face of the books if he had time. Pres. then gave untill Saturday to prepare for the conflict.
to auth. to collect money— and in their as. assignment that on the condition that those who pay that money to them they immediate report to the T. in T.
The 12 do not need to spend all the time for the , he can call on the public for his own wants. no more for 12 to go abroad and earn their living in this way than for others, The reason why we have not built the is because we have cried thou shalt not muzzle &c. Make the Oxs tread out the corn first and then feed him. I am bold to declare that I never have appropriated one dollar to my own use without having previously consulted the authorities. I have gone to the T. C. before I would take an pie, Let this prohibit all agencys abroad . When a man is sent to preach 1st. principles he should preach that and let the rest alone.
[6 April 1843, afternoon session]
: They say They have a right to steal from any man who is not a member of the Church if they consecrate 2/3 of it. They are also making Bogus money. They had some 3 or 4 amongst them who denied the faith, would talk, they ripped up their bowels and gave them to the cat fish, and that was their oaths. I wish to warn you all not to [be] duped by such men for they are the gadiantons of these days. Read an affidavit made by him some time ago. also the article at large. The man said they referred to the bible, Book of Covenants and Book of Mormon— They were the little foxes &c [p. [4]]

All these things are used to decoy the foolish and unwary. I have said the curse of God will rest upon such. I will mention 2 names David Holbrook [Holman] & . I went to them I asked them if they were robbing for a livelihood. Holbrook said they did. but not from the brethren. would not acknowledge, I ordered them out of my house. David asked me to forgive him & he lift up his hands & sware he would never do it again. Soon after he was found stealing salt— he then stole a skiff and took his family down the , stole a Barrel of Flour from Burke’s and sold it at . would not promise to quit but said he would go to . I tell you to day the man that steals shall not long after be brought to the Penitentiary, they will soon be brought to condign punish I demand in the presence of God that you will exert your wit and your power to bring such characters to justice, if you do not the curse of God will rest upon you. Such things would ruin a people. Should I catch a L.D.S. stealing he is the last man to whom I would shew mercy
[JS:] Think it best to continue this subject. Want all the to help to make it known abroad what the pwe. power of is. such things never have been tolerated, I despise a thief above ground. because I would know that he would be a detriment to my cause and would steal my horse when I wanted to run away. It has been said that some was afraid to disclose what they know of these secret combinations, consequently I issued this proclamations— (read). If any mans afraid let him come to me and I will protect him. I’ll ring (a theif) neck off if I can find him if I cant bring him to justice any other way [p. [5]]

Necessary to make a proclamation concerning . first in relation to the economy of the on that side of the . The of has granted a writ in the same manner, did. and it is now held in . I was told by the that the of had no jurisdiction after the decision of the supreme Court. appeals has been made to him () plausible— he is not willing to kill that writ or take it back. I’ll serve them a trick the devil never did ie come away and leave them. Come into pay taxes in leave them like the devil wont. dont care wether you come away but let a man as soon as he conveniently can come over here. we are all green Mountain boys, Southerners, northerners, westerners and every’ers. In relation to , It has been supposed that I made a great bargain with a certain at . He came to me the beginning of Aug. last. a stranger, put on long face— was in distress stranger— understood I was benevolent— had come for help— he said he was about to lose $1400 of property for $300 cash— had money in expected in 2 or 3 days— the sale takes tommorrow— want to hire money 2 or 3 days— I thought over night— came in the A. M. I thought I have been a stranger in a strange land and got help— it may he is an honest man— turn away— I will be guilty sin ingratitude will loan $200— in good faith sooner than be guilty of ingratitude gave his note— & says whenever you call on me you shall have the money— I was taken with writ— I asked him for the money— he said I have not got it— Shall have it in a few days— propose deeding to you all the property deeded to you 20000 acres— you paid the notes & they are in my hands— I will give them up. I propose deeding to you 1/2 my right to all my land in the all I ask is to give your influence to help build up . I answered I have not asked for your property— I dont want it, would not give snap for it— but I will receive the papers.— and If I find it as you say I will use my influence to build the place. but I wont give you any thing for the land. I told him I wanted the $200 he went to make the papers— and gave up the notes except a few I then said to if you go there with the brethren I will give you the property— I then let him have some cloth [p. [6]]

He began to say what obligations I was under. I wrote him a letter have found he is swindling— no prospect of getting any thing. owing about $1100. Thought it my duty to publish his rascality— that the might do the same. he’s got a writing to the effect that if he did as he said I would build the place his name is he is a big rascul. he looks like a woodchuck. He took this plan to swindle me out of money, boards &c. He tried to get his hands to steal my stove, he is a thief & the devil may have him for ever want the congregation to know. I was not going to use any influence to have the brethren to go to be swindled— my advice is (that the Ers publish) that they come away and no more go there. It is not a good location. when men feel disposed to ride me for a horse I feel disposed to kick up & throw him off and ride him. David did so & so did Joshua. my only weapon is my tongue. I was willing to receive a voluntary gift. I would not buy property in the it was stooping to receive it as a gift— In relation to the — its — every wise & judicious person as soon as he can dispose of his effects if he is not a half breed will come away. I wish we could swap away some 1/2 breeds. and let them go over the . If there is any that are not good citizens they will be growling tomorrow, that is the key word. There is chance for every abomination to be practised on the innocent if they go there. I ask forgiveness of all who I advised to go there. The men who have possession have best title. All the rest are from swindling. (The law)— Dont want the Mormons should have to quarrel there. [p. [7]]

— Those who have deeds for the have the greatest shadow of title— court of ordered it to be sold. Law for squatters says &c— My opinion is the Court of chancery had no business to gives such a decree. Legislature is the highest power said the dont belong to any body the surveyors threw them out as useless property & condemned land. and for many years they were not considered to be the property of any body. My advice to the Mormons is dont go nigh them, dont touch them. those who are squatters & those who have deeds may fight it out they can handle it in the Court without mittens. The deed warrants & defends against all unlawful claims. it is a bastard, name of the decree is half breed for it’s not like any thing else. its a nondescript. I offer my remarks for the benifit of the brethren. have had complaints entered by the Laws.— the Mormons are ruining them it is unjust to take advantage of my remarks to plunder them If a man take any such license from my decisions I forbid him in the name of the Lord.
Complaints have been made plundering main lands— assist me? dissatisfaction at have cut of — he came 4 q. Can a person not belonging to the bring a man before the and try him, I answered no!— I understood they were dissatisfied said I had no jurisdiction &c I dont want jurisdiction, have no ju only civily— all the ju. I exercised is in offering my opinion. Any remarks of that kind was uncalled for. I only advised them.
Denied having revelations, visions of wars &c. All the remark I made was in relation to that light. I said the probabillity is there will be a war. And not so big a prophet as many suppose me, many prophecying. [p. [8]]

referred to . If a thief were to prophecy 1000 times and he would steal I would not believe him, would despise his— If it were not that I know the truth I would back out so many false. When God reveals any thing from heaven it is so plain that a man need not be mistaken. The signs are portentous all we have to do is to stand still & see the salvation of God and if a man do more he will get into error as did. If I were going to prophecy in the name of the L I would prophecy it wont be the 40— or 41 years.
He then changed the subject. I never said the Lord was going to come in this generation. The book of C dont say the Lord will come in this generation. There are those in the rising generation who shall not see death untill the Lord come Once was praying &c— heard if thou livest till 85 &c— I came to the conclusion if I did live till I was 85 I should see the Millenium— I venture a prophecy in the name of the Son that the son of man will not come in the clouds of heaven to reign before I am 85 years of age. Rev. 14 ch 6 v. Hosea 6 c. 2 v.—
The coming of the son of man never will be untill the judgements spoken of are poured out. Paul says ye are the children of the light and of the day & not of the night that that day should overtake us as a thief in the night.
[7 April 1843, morning session]
, will be necessary to appoint in answer to requests , , .
First— . proposed that . go and preside over the at .— — said when he was at last fall he heard the request— know no better man— I have wrote that I would send him also recommend Joshua Grant and I will send him [p. [9]]

— willing to go forth to any part of the land, if this say go to — I am willing— flesh say stay friends say stay— friends in all [the] world— delight to bring out of darkness— never confered with flesh & blood your in Israels King— rejoice at any time when the H. S [Holy Spirit]— appoints me to go any where. am ready to go where pres & con— send me put my trust in God— hold me up I will go if it is as full of devils as of inhabitants— [23 lines blank] [p. [10]]