Discourse, 4 July 1843, as Reported by Willard Richards

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-4-july-1843-as-reported-by-willard-richards/1
Date: July 4, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Willard Richards

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 4 July 1843]. Featured version inscribed [4 July 1843]; handwriting of ; eight pages; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL. Includes docket, notation, and archival markings.
Single gathering of six leaves measuring 3 × 7½ inches (8 × 19 cm) when folded. There are nine horizontal gray lines per page, now faded; the lines run parallel to the gathering fold. On the recto of the first leaf, JS’s scribe inscribed his notes describing JS’s entrance into on 30 June; these notes were later erased. On 4 July, Richards began inscribing JS’s discourse of that date on the recto of the third leaf of the gathering and continued inscribing on both sides of the second leaf and the verso of the first leaf. He then inscribed the recto of the fourth leaf and the verso of the third, after which he inscribed the recto of the fifth leaf and verso of the fourth. After inscribing his notes of the discourse, Richards used two additional lines on the verso of the fourth leaf to describe other aspects of the 4 July celebration. The verso of the fifth leaf and both sides of the sixth leaf are blank. At some point, the gathering was pinned together; the pin was later removed. Bracketed archival notations identifying the date of the minutes and pagination were added likely at the time of cataloging.
The document was docketed by , who served as JS’s scribe from 1843 to 1844 and as clerk to the church historian and recorder from 1845 to 1865. Bullock also added a notation. In the mid-twentieth century, the document was included in a miscellaneous minutes collection that was a vestige of the genre-based filing method used by the Church Historian’s Office (now CHL) in the first half of the twentieth century. This document genre collection contained many documents that subsequently formed the basis for the General Church Minutes collection that was cataloged in 1994. The document’s dockets and its inclusion within the General Church Minutes collection indicate continuous institutional custody.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 4 July 1843, at the ’s Independence Day celebration in , Illinois, JS delivered a discourse recounting the Latter-day Saints’ difficulties with the state of over the previous five years. JS gave the discourse three days after the Nauvoo Municipal Court discharged him on a writ of from an arrest warrant issued by governor as part of the effort by Missouri state officials to have JS extradited to stand trial on a charge of treason. On 23 June 1843, Constable of , Illinois, had arrested JS near , Illinois, on Ford’s warrant and transferred custody of JS to Sheriff of , Missouri, the agent authorized to transport JS to Missouri. In Dixon, JS secured legal counsel—, , and —who helped him obtain a writ of habeas corpus, which would allow him to appear before an Illinois judge who could review the legality of JS’s detention. On 26 June, JS, his attorneys, Reynolds, Wilson, and a few others departed Dixon. Their stated destination was , Illinois, to appear before such a judge. However, JS and his attorneys decided to go instead to Nauvoo, where JS appeared before the Nauvoo Municipal Court on a writ of habeas corpus. On 27 June, small groups of the began intercepting the traveling party, with the intent of ensuring that Reynolds did not abscond with JS to Missouri without due process. After JS arrived in Nauvoo, the municipal court discharged him on 1 July 1843, citing the merits of the case and deficiencies in Ford’s warrant.
Following the 1 July 1843 discharge, and went to —the seat of , Illinois—where they made two public allegations against JS. According to , the lawmen claimed that JS “had resisted the law and the Mormons had rescued him.” In addition to making these allegations, Reynolds and Wilson “made some excitement” and “petitioned the to send on an armed force to take” JS. In response, church members sent a petition and other documents to the governor asking him not to take this action. In addition, JS’s attorney sought to counter Reynolds’s claims in Carthage and . On 3 July, a special was held to call missionaries to spread throughout the state to explain what happened during the arrest, the trip from to , and the municipal court proceedings.
Continuing these efforts to influence popular opinion, JS spoke in front of thousands of people on 4 July 1843 at the church’s Independence Day celebration. The event was advertised in the Nauvoo Neighbor, and according to contemporary estimates, as many as fifteen thousand people attended, including nearly a thousand visitors from , Iowa Territory; , Missouri; and , Illinois. Various speakers addressed the crowd throughout the day. JS spoke twice, once briefly in the morning and then again for about a half hour in the evening. According to Latter-day Saint , JS “gave them a history of his sufferings in Missouri how this people has suffered without the shadow of a cause and for no other reason than their desire to do good, to support the law and good order.” JS then described his arrest. believed that JS’s discourse “clearly vindicated his innocence & showed the corruption of his pursueers in a tru light.”
captured rough notes of JS’s discourse in a small booklet, evidently intending to transfer his account into JS’s journal at a later time, likely clarifying rough patches in the process. Although this two-step process was apparently Richards’s usual method of record keeping, the transfer did not occur for this discourse. also made an account of the discourse, which he termed a “synopsis,” likely working from memory or expanding notes into a polished account; any original notes are apparently no longer extant. Both the Richards and Woodruff accounts are featured here. Annotation that appears in Richards’s version of the discourse is not repeated in corresponding locations in Woodruff’s version.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Joseph said. arrested— writ ,— on friends petitioned a writ— stood clear— those officers to made false reprsntatin [representation]; I have legally discharged.— I testify I did submit myself quietly. proof .— various others . . . did transcend their power. or intimated that they were intimidated & brought here by fraud. honstly & uprightly— in all things in relation to this Subject.
Public mind. has been agitated. Language of Paul happy that I have this opportunity I never dwelt in [p. [1]]

over 6 mo— 5 6. years ago to from .— prisonr of war as I said but I never was a worriuor [warrior]— buldg home and our farm disburtances [disturbances] by Mob Mormons greatly distressed eastern peoples.— purhsying [purchasing] land. war murder war. bloodshed no sword pistol. musket I defy the man or woman to testify to my face Sought opportunities before the highest tribunal.— later arresst could not commit treason. had no comamed command— ministers of Christ bear & suffer long.— [p. [2]]

arrest under ,— tried before — previous in . . . Nol presesque filed on the records of this . hue & cry about . no crime by Jo Smith.— assissination of . States Court.—
Another charge— on the old affairs— to get me to — then try me for .— I was arres “arrested” commanded no men in .— nothing aganst — [p. [3]]

had nothing to do with civil govern-ment, have accepted an office at requst of the people here— military office many brethrn distitute [destitute], of arms— organize youself in indepedent, company—— armed by the , — Mormons Licence from regular churchers.— Same man, have certificates from surgen. I tried as humble citizen. I have served, them in a humble capacity mormons all vote on one side # [p. [4]]

# 2 candidates 1 methodist would kill. other support all in equal rights. — said I will exterminatee.— .— Bro who shall we vote for? I dont know nor care.— granted this writ.—— I . . . did not demand me it was another name officers fell on me pistols in hand— God dam you I will shoot God dam. you. heres by brest.— shoot.— im not afraid I opend my brest 4 or 5 time— told them to shoot. no time [p. [5]]

kiss my children.— 1/2 miles— by what authority. by W. from — from .— no God Dam it you shall shall not have— private room, cant have a lawyer—— a frend bring me a lawyer— if you say another word I blow fire away.— fire away. thrust him back—— sent out a message for— carraiage—— citizen of .— would string.— served for my damages—— false imprisonment.— attorney— Judge Cayten [John Caton] went to 32 miles— Judge gave another writ of Habeas corpus.—— [p. [6]]

they pledges their property.— , . &c.— day after I started for .— may I not get on to the horse my horse. git off this horse in peril,— I shall not get off. he drove my lawyers out of seat, extra coach. Lawyer interfered I to set at head of my table. family introduced 8,10, Lawyers agreed to writ habeas proved an alibi, did not commit treason.—— defective & void in many parts, discharge. away went to to raise an insurrection greater love hath no man than this— that a man lay [p. [7]]

down for his frind.— 6 mo 6 days— in & cold— sleep on boards— jury drunk— all but 2 for a watch watch. through the night, great criminal I am . . . his son holy angels gift and blessings of the holy ghost & gospel where is the differec [difference].—— misunderstood each other. [p. [8]]