Discourse, 6 May 1843, as Reported by Willard Richards

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-6-may-1843-as-reported-by-willard-richards/1
Date: May 6, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Willard Richards

JS, Discourse, [, IL, 6 May 1843]. Featured version inscribed [ca. 6 May 1843] in JS, Journal, 1842–1844, bk. 2, p. [193]; handwriting of ; JS Collection, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, 1842–1844.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

At a parade of the on 6 May 1843 near , Illinois, JS delivered a discourse on the rights of innocent sufferers. Legion regulations required the city militia to hold a “general parade” each May and September “in, or near the City of Nauvoo.” At 9:30 a.m., JS, as the legion’s lieutenant general, rode on horseback in front of the marching troops, who were accompanied by the legion band. A group of twelve women, led by JS’s wife , rode horseback in the parade. The procession marched to the open prairie near JS’s , approximately three miles east of Nauvoo. Despite cold and windy weather, the troops performed evolutions, or drills, and presented their uniforms, arms, and other equipment for inspection. Brigadier General of the territorial militia and two unnamed Army officers were present. The two officers reportedly “expressed great satisfaction” with the legion’s “appearance and evolutions.”
JS gave his short discourse in the early afternoon. He recounted previous petitions to government officials for protection from vigilante oppression and responses from officials stating that they had no power to protect the Saints. JS condemned such responses and vowed to defend the innocent. According to , JS delivered his remarks “with warmth & lively feeling.” Around 2:00 p.m., the legion disbanded and returned to .
JS’s scribe wrote an account of the discourse in JS’s journal. The account’s retrospective language indicates that it was written after the fact, possibly at JS’s dictation. , Willard’s brother, also wrote an account of the discourse, presumably after the fact from notes taken at the time or from memory or both. Both accounts are featured here.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

In my remark told the . when we have petitiond those in power for assistance they have always told us they had no power to help us, damn such power.— when they give me power to protect the innocent I will never say I can do nothing. I will exercise that power for their good.—— So help me God. [p. [193]]