Discourse, 6 August 1843, as Reported by Willard Richards

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-6-august-1843-as-reported-by-willard-richards/1
Date: August 6, 1843
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 6 Aug. 1843]. Featured version copied [ca. 6 Aug. 1843] in JS, Journal, 1842–1844, bk. 3, pp. [32]–[36]; handwriting of ; JS Collection, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, 1842–1844.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 6 August 1843, in , Illinois, JS preached a sermon regarding the upcoming congressional election. In March 1843, the Illinois legislature had redrawn the boundaries of the state’s congressional districts, and the in made up a significant portion of the newly created sixth district. In response, both the Whigs and the Democrats sought to curry favor with the Saints. In previous Illinois state elections, the Whigs actively campaigned against the church, and the Saints reliably voted for the Democrats. However, the Whigs ceased their public attacks against the church in the months leading up to the 1843 election and, in an apparent attempt to court the Saints’ vote, nominated JS’s friend and attorney to run in the sixth congressional district. At some point prior to the election—likely around the time of Walker’s nomination—JS pledged his vote to Walker.
JS’s relationship with was further strengthened following the June 1843 attempt to extradite JS to . In June 1843, a grand jury in , Missouri, indicted JS for treason for his role in the 1838 conflicts between Latter-day Saints and their opponents in that state. On 13 June, Missouri governor issued a requisition to state officials demanding that the state apprehend JS and turn him over to , Missouri, sheriff for extradition to Missouri. Four days later, Illinois governor issued a warrant for JS’s arrest to , Illinois, constable . On 23 June, Reynolds and Wilson arrested JS near , Illinois, while he and his family were visiting ’s sister Elizabeth Hale Wasson.
Shortly after his arrest, JS retained , , and as legal counsel. In order to prevent JS from being immediately conveyed to , JS and his legal advisers petitioned for and procured a writ of from , Illinois, officials. After discovering that the local circuit court judge was out of town, JS, his attorneys, , and others made their way south toward , Illinois, reportedly to find circuit court judge . On 27 June, men from intercepted the convoy and escorted the party into . Once there, JS obtained a writ of habeas corpus from the municipal court. In a discourse delivered in the near the construction site that night, JS recounted the basic details of his capture and defended the city’s right, as stipulated in the Act to Incorporate the City of Nauvoo (commonly known as the Nauvoo charter), to issue writs of habeas corpus. The Nauvoo Municipal Court held a hearing on 1 July, ruling that JS be discharged from arrest “for want of substance in the warrant upon which he was arrested as well as upon the merits of said case.”
JS and the Saints were initially furious that governor , a Democrat whom they considered a political ally, allowed the extradition attempt to proceed. To defend Ford and win back the Saints’ vote, Democrats alleged that and other Whig politicians colluded with and other Whigs in to stage the extradition attempt. Whigs denounced such claims as base lies told to convince the Saints to vote for the Democrats. They also claimed that Ford was holding the threat of extradition over JS’s head as leverage to secure the Saints’ vote. However, some Whigs disapproved of Walker’s legal defense of and friendship with JS and withdrew their support from him. Still, knowing the importance of the Latter-day Saint vote in the district, both Walker and Democratic candidate continued to campaign in , giving political speeches and holding debates in the city on 29 July and 1 August.
Although JS privately promised to vote for , he and the Saints appear to have publicly maintained a position of neutrality between the two candidates. The Nauvoo Neighbor published letters to the editor in favor of both candidates but cautioned the Saints to unite behind a single candidate to preserve the political leverage of their votes. On 1 August, just six days before the election, JS received a letter from , whom had earlier sent as a “special agent” to investigate the facts surrounding the extradition attempt and subsequent hearing in . Brayman reassured JS of Ford’s good feelings toward him and the Saints. According to Brayman, Ford had reluctantly issued the writ to arrest JS out of his duty to the law, and after receiving affidavits from JS and others, he would issue no further writs to extradite JS. Brayman further assured JS of Ford’s continued protection regardless of whom the Saints voted for. The letter appears to have softened JS’s and other church leaders’ negative attitudes toward Ford and may have changed their political strategy.
On 2 August, an editorial in the Nauvoo Neighbor promised that would address the Saints three days later regarding the election. At the 5 August meeting, Hyrum Smith endorsed and encouraged the Saints to do likewise. , the second counselor in the , objected from the stand to Hyrum Smith’s pronouncement, reminded the audience of ’s support for JS and the Saints, and cited JS’s pledge to vote for Walker—which was apparently not public knowledge. Law evidently suggested that JS’s views should overrule Hyrum Smith’s, given JS’s senior church leadership position. In response to Law’s statements, Hyrum Smith announced that he had received a revelation that the Saints should support Hoge and the Democrats. An anonymous observer noted that Hyrum Smith’s remarks were “a death-blow” to Walker’s election. Adding weight to his remarks, just a few weeks earlier JS publicly announced that Hyrum Smith would take on greater prophetic responsibility over the church. Some cynical residents saw this announcement and Hyrum Smith’s subsequent discourse as a “political ruse” to swing the Latter-day Saint vote from Walker to Hoge. The public disagreement between Law and Hyrum Smith threatened to spoil the unified front church leaders promoted in the Nauvoo Neighbor.
The next day, the Saints held their regular Sunday worship service. Following an opening prayer by and a sermon on the subject of testimony by , JS addressed the Saints. JS discussed his relationship with and confirmed his earlier pledge to vote for him. However, JS also stated he did not want his name used for electioneering purposes and endorsed ’s revelation that church members should vote for . JS recanted his earlier complaints about ’s actions and acknowledged Ford as a “personal friend.” At the close of his discourse, JS responded to Pratt’s sermon and gave some remarks on the relationship between evidence and faith.
At least two residents recorded accounts of JS’s 6 August discourse. took detailed notes in JS’s journal entry for that date, and after the election on 7 August, an anonymous Nauvoo resident provided a version of the discourse to the editor of the New-York Daily Tribune. This anonymous author, referred to only as “K.” in the newspaper, was apparently a Latter-day Saint supporter of living in Nauvoo. He was possibly the same individual who earlier wrote a letter to the Nauvoo Neighbor in support of Walker’s election under the initials “A. K.” The 7 August letter to the Tribune discussed the election results and included a brief account of JS’s discourse the day before. The letter was published in the 24 August edition of the Tribune, from which the second featured version is excerpted.
On 7 August, JS rode to the polls with in his carriage and fulfilled his promise to vote for him. The Latter-day Saints voted overwhelmingly for , who won the vote in —2,088 to 733—and carried the district as well. The results infuriated Whigs in Hancock and surrounding counties, with local Whigs complaining that they lost only because a “Revelation from Heaven, prompted and brought about by Locofoco tactics, turned a majority against us.” The leading state Whig newspaper, the Sangamo Journal, similarly noted that “it required a revelation from Heaven! to make the Mormons accede to the wishes of .” Ultimately, JS’s and ’s discourses and the subsequent election led to a considerable increase in negative sentiment toward the Saints in .

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

preached. on testimony. after Sermon. Joseph (for he came to the soon after commencd.) said he would preach his sermon next sunday he was not able to day.— would speak of another subject.— the Election he was above the kingdoms— of the world for he broke no laws.—
I have not come to tell you to vote this way. that way. or the other.
in relation to national matters I want it to go abroad to the whole world. that every man should [p. [32]]

stand on his own merits. the Lord has not given me Revelation concerning politics.— I have not asked the Lord for it.— I am a third party stand independnt and alone— I desire to see all parties protected in their rights.— in relation to . he is a whig candidate a high minded man.
has not hung on to my coat tail to gain his election as some have said. I am going to give a testimony but not for electioneering ppris [purposes].— [p. [33]]

before came to . rumor came up that he might become a candidate for congress.”— says I he is an old friend I will vote for him.— when came to my house. I voluntarily told him I was going to vote for him
When I dictated to him the laws of , he received them on my testimony.— the rascals took s. & security when I was arrested made come to me & beg my pardon. for abuse he gave me & through his means took the pistols from the rascals. & withdrew all claim to your vote & influence if it will be detrimental to your interest as a peoplee— [p. [34]]

tells me this morning that he has had a testimony that it will be better for this people to vote for . & I never knew say he ever had a revelation & it faild.— (Let God speak and all men hold their peace.) Never told to tell my private feelings. and I utterly forbid these polotical political demagogues from using my name hecefoth henceforth. forever.—
It is my settled feeling that if erred in granting a writ against me it is of the head and not of the heart. and I authorize all men to say I am a personal friend of . [p. [35]]

a cap to Sermon
every word that procedeeth from the mouth of Jehovah has such an influence over the human mind the logical mind. that it is convincing without othr testimony.
faith cometh by hearing.
If 10000 men testify to a truth you know would it add to your faith? no, or will 1000 testimonies destroy your knowledge— of a fact? no.—
I do not want any one to tell I am a propht or attempt to prove my word I Propecy [prophesy] in the name of God Almgty Almighty they shall bear off the palm [p. [36]]