Discourse, 6 April 1843–B, as Reported by William Clayton

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-6-april-1843-b-as-reported-by-william-clayton/1
Date: April 6, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 6 Apr. 1843]. Version copied in Minutes and Discourses, 6–7 April 1843, pp. [5]–[9]; handwriting of ; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL. Includes redactions and dockets.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Minutes and Discourses, 6–7 Apr. 1843, as Reported by William Clayton.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Think it best to continue this subject. Want all the to help to make it known abroad what the pwe. [power] of is. such things never have been tolerated, I despise a thief above ground. because I would know that he would be a detriment to my cause and would steal my horse when I wanted to run away. It has been said that some was afraid to disclose what they know of these secret combinations, consequently I issued this proclamations— (read). If any mans afraid let him come to me and I will protect him. I’ll ring (a theif) neck off if I can find him if I cant bring him to justice any other way [p. [5]]

Necessary to make a proclamation concerning . first in relation to the economy of the on that side of the . The of has granted a writ in the same manner, did. and it is now held in . I was told by the that the of had no jurisdiction after the decision of the supreme Court. appeals has been made to him () plausible— he is not willing to kill that writ or take it back. I’ll serve them a trick the devil never did ie come away and leave them. Come into pay taxes in leave them like the devil wont. dont care wether you come away but let a man as soon as he conveniently can come over here. we are all green Mountain boys, Southerners, northerners, westerners and every’ers. In relation to , It has been supposed that I made a great bargain with a certain at . He came to me the beginning of Aug. last. a stranger, put on long face— was in distress stranger— understood I was benevolent— had come for help— he said he was about to lose $1400 of property for $300 cash— had money in expected in 2 or 3 days— the sale takes tommorrow— want to hire money 2 or 3 days— I thought over night— came in the A. M. I thought I have been a stranger in a strange land and got help— it may he is an honest man— turn away— I will be guilty sin ingratitude will loan $200— in good faith sooner than be guilty of ingratitude gave his note— & says whenever you call on me you shall have the money— I was taken with writ— I asked him for the money— he said I have not got it— Shall have it in a few days— propose deeding to you all the property deeded to you 20000 acres— you paid the notes & they are in my hands— I will give them up. I propose deeding to you 1/2 my right to all my land in the all I ask is to give your influence to help build up . I answered I have not asked for your property— I dont want it, would not give snap for it— but I will receive the papers.— and If I find it as you say I will use my influence to build the place. but I wont give you any thing for the land. I told him I wanted the $200 he went to make the papers— and gave up the notes except a few I then said to if you go there with the brethren I will give you the property— I then let him have some cloth [p. [6]]

He began to say what obligations I was under. I wrote him a letter have found he is swindling— no prospect of getting any thing. owing about $1100. Thought it my duty to publish his rascality— that the might do the same. he’s got a writing to the effect that if he did as he said I would build the place his name is he is a big rascul. he looks like a woodchuck. He took this plan to swindle me out of money, boards &c. He tried to get his hands to steal my stove, he is a thief & the devil may have him for ever want the congregation to know. I was not going to use any influence to have the brethren to go to be swindled— my advice is (that the Ers publish) that they come away and no more go there. It is not a good location. when men feel disposed to ride me for a horse I feel disposed to kick up & throw him off and ride him. David did so & so did Joshua. my only weapon is my tongue. I was willing to receive a voluntary gift. I would not buy property in the it was stooping to receive it as a gift— In relation to the — its — every wise & judicious person as soon as he can dispose of his effects if he is not a half breed will come away. I wish we could swap away some 1/2 breeds. and let them go over the . If there is any that are not good citizens they will be growling tomorrow, that is the key word. There is chance for every abomination to be practised on the innocent if they go there. I ask forgiveness of all who I advised to go there. The men who have possession have best title. All the rest are from swindling. (The law)— Dont want the Mormons should have to quarrel there. [p. [7]]

— Those who have deeds for the have the greatest shadow of title— court of ordered it to be sold. Law for squatters says &c— My opinion is the Court of chancery had no business to gives such a decree. Legislature is the highest power said the dont belong to any body the surveyors threw them out as useless property & condemned land. and for many years they were not considered to be the property of any body. My advice to the Mormons is dont go nigh them, dont touch them. those who are squatters & those who have deeds may fight it out they can handle it in the Court without mittens. The deed warrants & defends against all unlawful claims. it is a bastard, name of the decree is half breed for it’s not like any thing else. its a nondescript. I offer my remarks for the benifit of the brethren. have had complaints entered by the Laws.— the Mormons are ruining them it is unjust to take advantage of my remarks to plunder them If a man take any such license from my decisions I forbid him in the name of the Lord.
Complaints have been made plundering main lands— assist me? dissatisfaction at have cut of — he came 4 q. Can a person not belonging to the bring a man before the and try him, I answered no!— I understood they were dissatisfied said I had no jurisdiction &c I dont want jurisdiction, have no ju only civily— all the ju. I exercised is in offering my opinion. Any remarks of that kind was uncalled for. I only advised them.
Denied having revelations, visions of wars &c. All the remark I made was in relation to that light. I said the probabillity is there will be a war. And not so big a prophet as many suppose me, many prophecying. [p. [8]]

referred to . If a thief were to prophecy 1000 times and he would steal I would not believe him, would despise his— If it were not that I know the truth I would back out so many false. When God reveals any thing from heaven it is so plain that a man need not be mistaken. The signs are portentous all we have to do is to stand still & see the salvation of God and if a man do more he will get into error as did. If I were going to prophecy in the name of the L I would prophecy it wont be the 40— or 41 years.
He then changed the subject. I never said the Lord was going to come in this generation. The book of C dont say the Lord will come in this generation. There are those in the rising generation who shall not see death untill the Lord come Once was praying &c— heard if thou livest till 85 &c— I came to the conclusion if I did live till I was 85 I should see the Millenium— I venture a prophecy in the name of the Son that the son of man will not come in the clouds of heaven to reign before I am 85 years of age. Rev. 14 ch 6 v. Hosea 6 c. 2 v.—
The coming of the son of man never will be untill the judgements spoken of are poured out. Paul says ye are the children of the light and of the day & not of the night that that day should overtake us as a thief in the night. [p. [9]]