Discourse, 9 December 1843

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-9-december-1843/1
Date: December 9, 1843
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 9 Dec. 1843]. Featured version published in Nauvoo Neighbor, 20 Dec. 1843, vol. 1, no. 31, [3]. For more complete source information, see the source note for Notice, 26 Aug. 1843.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 9 December 1843, JS addressed citizens of , Illinois, at a public meeting called by the city council in the aftermath of the kidnappings of and his father, , which occurred in November and December. The previous day, the Nauvoo City Council had issued orders that “the Citizens of this city be called together” to hear a public reading of an ordinance intended to protect JS from possible extradition to . A large group of Nauvoo residents assembled on the corner of Main and Water streets on 9 December in accordance with the appointment.
When the public meeting opened, the city council elected , an and a member of the city council, as chair and appointed , a prominent physician, as secretary. , an apostle and a city alderman, spoke first, though the meeting minutes do not disclose his subject. —a city councilor, an apostle, and a newspaper publisher—followed Smith and read the extra issue of the Nauvoo Neighbor that had been published the night before. The extra contained the resolutions from a public meeting held 7 December, the city ordinances passed on 8 December, quotations from the Constitution, and letters from attorney general and his predecessor concerning the status of the . McDougall and Lamborn dismissed financial claims from the city’s legion officers to the state of Illinois and stressed the legion’s financial independence. McDougall further stated that the legion was “entirely independent” from the state militia and was exempt from state militia laws or regulations. He claimed that according to the legislative act incorporating , the legion was “designed to sustain the Municipal authorities of Nauvoo” rather than to function as a regular unit of the state militia. After his public reading of the Nauvoo Neighbor extra, Taylor addressed the attendees presumably on the subjects covered in the extra.
JS then spoke to the assembly. According to ’s account, JS delivered an “interesting address to the assembly,” in which he “Spoke of our persecutions, the manner that our rights & liberti[e]s had been trampled upon & that it was time it was stoped.” ’s meeting minutes, however, said nothing about the Saints’ history of persecution and instead reported that JS critiqued the letters from and , insisting that the Nauvoo Legion was part of the state militia and subject to the governor’s orders. Woodruff noted that following JS’s address, the assembly “all sanctioned the speach of the general & were dismissed in good order & retur[n]ed to their homes.”
’s meeting minutes were forwarded to the Nauvoo Neighbor, which published them in its 20 December issue. In the intervening days, the Nauvoo Neighbor published the letters from the attorneys general for a second time in its 13 December issue, expressing satisfaction that the opinions conveyed in the letters “correspond so much with our own.” The contradiction between JS’s published remarks and the statements in the Nauvoo Neighbor—as well as JS’s apparent reliance on the letters to justify mobilizing the legion on 8 December—possibly reflected the city leadership’s desire to claim that the legion was both independent from and authorized by the . Given the Nauvoo Neighbor’s later publishing date and the differences between ’s contemporaneous summary of the discourse and the published minutes, it is possible that Bernhisel selectively reported or revised his account to reflect the more conciliatory position that JS adopted after 18 December.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

After some pertinent remarks by , General Joseph Smith briefly addressed the meeting; he dissented entirely from the opinion of the , and observed that it was stated in the charter that the was a part of the militia of , and that his commission declared that he (General Smith) was the Lieutenant General of the , and if [of] the militia of the State of , and as such, it was not only his duty to enforce the ordinances, but the laws of the when called on by the Governor. He also stated that he had been informed that the of had it in contemplation to make another requisition on the of for him, Joseph Smith. [p. [3]]