Discourse, 17 May 1843–A

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-17-may-1843-a/1
Date: May 17, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 17 May 1843]. Featured version copied [ca. 19 May 1843] in William Clayton, Journal, 25 Apr. 1843–24 Sept. 1844, p. [16]; handwriting of ; William Clayton, Journals, 1842–1846, CHL. For more complete source information, see the Source Note for Instruction, 16 May 1843.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 17 May 1843, JS preached a discourse in , Illinois, on the first chapter of 2 Peter in the New Testament. In the discourse, JS revisited a subject he had addressed three days before in , Illinois—the individual Christian believer’s obtaining assurance of having eternal life. As he did in the earlier discourse, JS emphasized the importance of knowledge in this process and explained the “more sure word of prophecy” mentioned in 2 Peter 1:19, which he interpreted as receiving divine confirmation of being “ up unto eternal life.” In this 17 May discourse, JS indicated that this divine affirmation would come through the .
Having been apprised on the evening of 16 May that JS planned to preach the following day, the Saints congregated at 10:00 a.m. on 17 May, possibly in a schoolhouse built by members in . Samuel Prior, a Methodist preacher who was visiting Macedonia to observe the Latter-day Saints in general and JS in particular, attended the meeting and subsequently wrote an account of his experience, which was published in the Times and Seasons. Prior described taking his “seat in a conspicuous place in the congregation” and waiting for JS’s arrival, after which JS “commenced calmly and continued dispassionately to pursue his subject. . . . He glided along through a very interesting and elaborate discourse, with all the care and happy facility of one who was well aware of his important station, and his duty to God and man, and evidencing to me, that he was well worthy to be styled ‘a workman rightly dividing the word of truth,’ and giving without reserve, ‘saint and sinner his portion in due season.’” Prior stated, “I was compelled to go away with a very different opinion from what I had entertained when I first took my seat to hear him [JS] preach.”
, who accompanied JS to , wrote an account of the discourse in his journal. The relatively polished nature of the featured text suggests that Clayton reconstructed JS’s words after the fact, likely from notes taken at the time. Based on the uniformity of the ink flow and character formation in his journal, it appears that Clayton created the entries covering 14 May through most of 19 May in one sitting. The original notes are apparently not extant.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

He shewed that knowledge is power & the man who has the most knowledge has the greatest power. Also that Salvation means a mans being placed beyond the power of all his enemies. He said the more sure word of prophecy meant, a mans knowing that he was up unto eternal life by revelation & the spirit of prophecy, through the power of the Holy . He also showed that it was impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance. Paul had seen the third heavens and I more. Peter penned the most sublime language of any of the apostles. [p. [16]]