Minutes and Discourses, 6–9 October 1843

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourses-6-9-october-1843/1
Date: October 6, 1843
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

Special conference of the Church, Minutes, and JS, Discourses, , Hancock Co., IL, 6–9 October 1843. Featured version published in “Minutes of a Special Conference,” Times and Seasons, 15 Sept. 1843, vol. 4, no. 21, 329–332. For more complete source information, see the source note for Letter to Isaac Galland, 22 Mar. 1839.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

From 6 to 9 October 1843, JS presided over the semiannual of the in , Illinois. JS had announced the conference about two weeks earlier in print and in a discourse. The conference was to commence on Friday, 6 October, at ten o’clock in the morning, but cold and windy weather necessitated postponing it until the next day. When the conference began the next morning at ten o’clock, JS stated that the conference would address two matters of business: first, ’s standing in the church; and second, the building of the .
In the early years of the church emerged as one of JS’s most capable followers and fellow church leaders, serving as the first counselor in the , but the two men grew estranged after the Latter-day Saints relocated to . Because of chronic sickness, Rigdon had not actively functioned as a counselor. Additionally, a rift emerged between the men following JS’s alleged plural marriage proposal to Rigdon’s daughter in spring 1842. During the next year and a half, JS’s and Rigdon’s relationship vacillated between tenuous reconciliation and open hostility. In August and September 1843, and reportedly heard rumors that Rigdon had conspired with JS’s enemies in and . During a mid-August discourse, JS responded to these allegations by publicly accusing Rigdon of disloyalty and persuading the assembled Saints to withdraw Rigdon’s ministerial . Rigdon tried to answer these charges in late August, but the claims did not receive a full investigation until the October conference. Several church leaders later stated that JS privately to replace Rigdon in the First Presidency even though Rigdon’s case was still pending.
On Saturday, 7 October, JS formally charged , and Rigdon began his defense. The session was dismissed early due to inclement weather, and Rigdon continued to defend himself on Sunday, 8 October, during which time JS dropped at least one of the charges against him. , , and advocated for mercy in Rigdon’s behalf. Although JS continued to express doubt about Rigdon’s integrity, the conference voted to retain Rigdon as one of the counselors in the First Presidency. At the conclusion of the vote, the conference adjourned until the next day due to poor weather.
On Monday, 9 October, the conference assembled for both a morning and an afternoon session. In the morning, JS stated that the next item of business for the conference was the progress of the ’s construction. During the prior season, temple workers raised the walls from somewhere between four and twelve feet high to nearly twenty-five feet high, roughly completing the first-story stonework. Yet considerable work remained, and there was a great need for labor and goods to complete the structure. After JS’s remarks, and , the members of the church’s , discussed this progress and the need for additional labor and supplies to help the work continue. echoed their comments, after which the conference voted to continue the efforts to build the temple.
In the Monday afternoon session, JS delivered a funeral sermon for , a prominent Latter-day Saint who had moved to from , Illinois, by the prior summer. JS first met Adams in 1839, when JS passed through Springfield on his way to . Thereafter Adams served as one of JS’s trusted confidants and was a father figure to him. Adams died on 11 August 1843, and though JS attended his funeral on 16 August, there is no record that he preached on that occasion. His conference sermon about Adams was possibly prompted by the attendance of Harriet Denton Adams, James Adams’s widow, at a prayer meeting held in JS’s house the night before. JS based his discourse on chapter 12 of the epistle to the Hebrews in the New Testament, particularly the difference between angels and the spirits of “just men made perfect” as mentioned in verses 22–23. According to the featured published conference report, JS’s sermon “was delivered with his usual feeling and pathos; and was listened to with the most profound and eager attention by the multitude, who hung upon his instructions.” recorded that “the people were well edified” by JS’s remarks and “a very good feeling prevailed throughout” the conference.
There are apparently no extant manuscript minutes for the October 1843 conference. served as the conference clerk. Although Hills occasionally served as clerk for church and civic meetings, he was not one of JS’s usual scribes. Hills’s minutes were printed in the 15 September 1843 issue of the Times and Seasons, which was at least a month behind schedule. likely kept loose minutes of at least the proceedings against on 7 October, but if he did so, they are apparently not extant. While Richards typically recorded conference minutes in JS’s journal, which he kept, he did not do so for this conference. However, Richards did record an account of JS’s 9 October discourse in the journal. Church member copied a refined account of JS’s doctrinal teachings from that discourse into his personal journal, although it is unclear if Burgess was present at the conference. Burgess attributed these teachings to “J Smith Prophet,” and while his account is not dated, it matches the themes and doctrines JS addressed at the October 1843 conference.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

MINUTES OF A SPECIAL
Of the , held in the City of , commencing on the 6th of October, 1843.
Friday, October 6th, 10 o’clock A. M.
The weather proving unfavorable, the organization of the conference was postponed until the next day at 10 o’clock A. M.
Saturday, 10 o’clock A. M.
Conference assembled and proceeded to business.
President Joseph Smith was called to the chair, and chosen clerk.
Opened with singing by the choir, and prayer by .
The president stated the items of business to be brought before the Conference, to be,
1st. The case and standing of elder , counsellor to the .
2d. The further progress of the ; after which, any miscellaneous business.
Elder addressed the conference on the subject of his situation and circumstances among the saints.
President Joseph Smith addressed the conference, inviting an expression of any charges or complaints which the Conference had to make. He stated his dissatisfaction with elder as a counsellor, not having received any material benefit from his labors or counsels since their escape from . Several complaints were then brought forward in reference to his management in the Post Office; a supposed correspondence and connection with , with , and with the [p. 329]

Missourians, of a treacherous character: also his leaguing with dishonest persons in endeavoring to defraud the innocent.
President Joseph Smith related to the the detention of documents from , Esq., which were designed for the benefit of himself, (President Smith,) but was not handed over for some three or four weeks, greatly to his disadvantage. Also, an indirect testimony from , through the of , that said and others had given information, by letter, of President Smiths’ visit to , advising them to proceed to that place and arrest him there. He stated that in consequence of those, and other circumstances, and his unprofitableness to him as a counsellor, he did not wish to retain him in that station, unless those difficulties could be removed; but desired his salvation, and expressed his willingness that he should retain a place among the saints.
suggested the propriety of limiting the complaints and proofs to circumstances that had transpired since the last Conference.
President Joseph Smith replied, and showed the legality and propriety of a thorough investigation, without such limitation.
Elder plead, concerning the documents from , Esq., that he received it in answer to some inquiries which he had transmitted to him—that he received it at a time when he was sick, and unable to examine it—did not know that it was designed for the perusal and benefit of President Joseph Smith—that he had, consequently, ordered it to be laid aside, where it remained until inquired for by Joseph Smith. He had never written to concerning the visit of Joseph Smith to , and knew of no other person having done so. That, concerning certain rumors of belligerent operations under ’s administration, he had related them, not to alarm or disturb any one, but that he had the rumors from good authorities, and supposed them well founded. That he had never received but one communication from , and that of a business character, except one addressed to him conjointly with Elder , which he handed over to President Smith—that he had never written any letters to .
The weather becoming inclement, Conference adjourned until Sunday 10 o’clock A. M.
Sunday, 8th inst., 10 o’clock, A. M.
Conference assembled agreeably to adjournment, and opened with singing by the choir, and prayer by Elder .
Elder resumed his plea of defence. He related the circumstances of his reception in the city of , after his escape from —the cause of his delay in not going to the city of , on an express to which he had been appointed—and closed with a moving appeal to President Joseph Smith concerning their former friendship, associations and sufferings, and expressed his willingness to resign his place, though with sorrowful and indescribable feelings. During this address, the sympathies of the congregation were highly excited.
Elder related a conversation he had had with Esq. Johnson, in which he exonerated elder from the charge or suspicion of having had a treacherous correspondence with .
President Joseph Smith arose and satisfactorily explained to the congregation the supposed treacherous correspondence with , which wholly removed suspicion from elder , and from every other person. He expressed entire willingness to have elder retain his station, provided he would magnify his office, and walk and conduct himself in all honesty, righteousness, and integrity; but signified his lack of confidence in his integrity and steadfastness, judging from their past intercourse.
President followed with appropriate and expressive remarks on the attribute of mercy in God, as that by which He influences, controls, and conquers—and the propriety and importance of the saint’s exercising the same attribute towards their fellows; and especially towards their aged companion and fellow servant in the cause of truth and righteousness.
Elder and pres’t. followed with remarks in defence of elder .
On motion by President , and seconded by President , Conference voted that elder be permitted to retain his station as Counsellor to the .
Singing by the choir—prayer by pres’t. .
Conference adjourned for one hour.
Sunday Three o’clock P. M.
Conference assembled, but in consequence of the inclemency of the weather, business was postponed until Monday 10 o’clock A. M.
Monday 10 o’clock, A. M.
Conference assembled, and resumed business.
Singing by the choir—prayer by elder .
The business pertaining to the was then announced by the President as next in order. [p. 330]

, on the part of the , represented the work of the to be retarded for want of team work and provisions: also of iron, steel, powder and clothing—giving as his opinion that the walls could easily be completed next season, if these embarrassments were removed, and the brethren would come forward to sustain them in the work with the means that were in their hands.
Elder followed, seconding the remarks of , and setting forth the importance of the using their utmost exertions to fulfil the revelation concerning the —earnestly exhorting the saints, here and abroad, to roll in the necessary means into the hands of the Committee, that the work may advance with rapidity.
President followed with pertinent remarks on the importance of the work—the ease with which it might be advanced to its completion—that it had already become a monument for the people abroad to gaze on with astonishment. He concluded with some advice to parents to restrain their children from vice and folly, and employ them in some business of profit to themselves, to the , or elsewhere.
On motion by elder , and seconded by President , voted, That we, as conference, and individuals, will use all the means, exertions and influence in our power, to sustain the Temple Committee in advancing the work of the .
President Joseph Smith presented and read to the Conference, a communication from Col. , whose conduct had been called in question, in connection with elder , and expressed himself satisfied that Col. was free, even of reproach or suspicion, in that matter.
Conference adjourned for one hour.
Monday, 2 o’clock, P. M.
Conference reassembled, and listened with profound attention, to an impressive discourse from President Joseph Smith, commemorative of the decease of , Esq., late of this , and an honorable, worthy, useful, and esteemed member of the . He spoke of the importance of our understanding the reasons and causes of our exposure to the vicissitudes of life, and of death; and the designs and purposes of God, in our coming into the world, our sufferings here, and our departure hence—that it is but reasonable to suppose that God would reveal something in reference to the matter—the ignorance of the world in reference to their true condition, and relation. Reading the experience of others, or the revelations given to them, can never give us a comprehensive view of our condition and true relation to God. Knowledge of these things, can only be obtained by experience in these things, through the of God set forth for that purpose. He remarked that the disappointment of hopes and expectations at the resurrection, would be indescribably dreadful. That the organization of the spiritual and heavenly worlds, and of spiritual and heavenly beings, was agreeably to the most perfect order and harmony—that their limits and bounds were fixed irrevocably, and voluntarily subscribed to by themselves—subscribed to upon the earth—hence the importance of embracing and subscribing to principles of eternal truth. He assured the saints that truth in reference to these matters, can, and may be known, through the revelations of God in the way of his ordinances, and in answer to prayer. The Hebrew church “came unto the spirits of just men made perfect, and unto an innumerable company of angels, unto God the Father of all, and to Jesus Christ the Mediator of the New Covenant;” but what they learned, has not been, and could not have been written. What object was gained by this communication with the spirits of the just, &c.? It was the established order of the kingdom of God—the of power and knowledge were with them to communicate to the saints—hence the importance of understanding the distinction between the spirits of the just, and angels. Spirits can only be revealed in flaming fire, or glory. Angels have advanced farther—their light and glory being tabernacled, and hence appear in bodily shape.
Concerning brother , he remarked, that it should appear strange that so good and so great a man was hated. The deceased ought never to have had an enemy. But so it was, wherever light shone, it stirred up darkness. Truth and error, good and evil, cannot be reconciled. had been a most intimate friend. He had anointed him to the power—to receive the keys of knowledge, and power, by revelation to himself. He had had revelations concerning his departure, and had gone to a more important work—of opening up a more effectual door for the dead. The spirits of the just are exalted to a greater and more glorious work—hence they are blessed in departing hence. Enveloped in flaming fire, they are not far from us, and know and understand our thoughts, feelings and motions, and are often pained therewith.
President Smith concluded with exhortations to the church to renew their exertions to [p. 331]

forward the work of the , and in walking before the Lord in soberness and righteousness.
Such a faint outline of the discourse of President Joseph Smith, which was delivered with his usual feeling and pathos; and was listened to with the most profound and eager attention by the multitude, who hung upon his instructions, anxious to learn and pursue the path of eternal life.
After singing by the choir, and prayer by the President, adjourned sine die, with the benediction of the President.
JOSEPH SMITH, President.
, Clerk. [p. 332]