Discourse, 29 December 1843

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-29-december-1843/1
Date: December 29, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Willard Richards

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 29 Dec. 1843; Nauvoo City Council Rough Minute Book, 29 Dec. 1843, 30–31; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Nauvoo City Council Rough Minute Book, Feb.–Dec. 1841.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Minutes and Discourse, 29 Dec. 1843.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

The Mayor . said that it was expected that a part would be on duty while othess rest,— that it might be expected that thieves had crept into the , that it would be an abominable thing to set a theif to catch a thief, & would look upon men in their situation, guilty of a mean or cowardly act with the utmost concempt,— to be called High policeman, men have strange Ears, transformed,— altogether different from what they were, we will be forbearing, until we are compelled to strike, then do it decently and in good order, & break the yoke so that it cannot be mended, the mob has been so repulsed they stand in fear, we will be at peace with all men so long as they will let us alone “shall be the Motto of the from this time forth, in relation to , Let them alone”— they stink in the nose of the Almighty, Let them alone.— has gone clear and that proves me clear of being accessory of shooting [p. 30]

our difficulties from the State of are hurled on us through the influence of our neighbors around us.— the has boasted of being a law abiding man. it is our best policy to acquaint the by affidavits &c so that when the onset comes he will be obliged to send the Militia to our support. Let us keep cool, as a cucumber in a frosty morning, say nothing about . Soft words turn away wrath “in the heart of a fool,” therefore we will Poor pussey this generation. keep time,— have the ordinances in possession and study them, & ferret out all brothels and disorderly conduct, and if a transgressor resists cuff his ears,— if any one lifts a weapon presents a pistol &c take his life if needs be, to save your your own lives, Let no horse be taken away,— or any thing stolen.— Let alone, stay at home, if any man attempts to bribe you tell me, Let us have a reformation, the speculators are in this & wanting to sell revolving pistols, to us to fight the Mo [Missourians] and the Mo’ to fight us, I think my life more in danger from some little doe head of a fool in the than from all the volobulory [volubility] of enemies abroad, and if I can escape the the hand of an assassin I can live as might Caesar, have lived if he had not been for a Brutus— I have have had pretended friends who have betrayed me as I am informed. Then Blessed the police,— it may be said in time to come where is our if old policemen—. if Let us have one of our policemen if you will magnify your office shall be the blessing that shall be conforrd on you in time to come. [p. 31]