Discourse, 6 April 1843–B, as Reported by James Burgess

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-6-april-1843-b-as-reported-by-james-burgess/1
Date: April 6, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of James Burgess

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 6 Apr. 1843]. Featured version copied [after 12 Apr. 1843] in James Burgess, Journal and Notebook, Oct. 1841–Dec. 1848, verso, pp. [6]–[8]; handwriting of ; James Burgess, Journals, 1841–1848, CHL.
, “James Burgess Minister of the Gospel. Second Book of Record Containing the History of His Life October 20th 1841,” Journal and Notebook, 20 Oct. 1841–10 Dec. 1848; 292 pages; handwriting of ; James Burgess, Journals, 1841–1848, CHL. Includes redactions, notations, and archival labels.
Blank book measuring 7 × 4¾ × 1 inches (18 × 12 × 3 cm) and containing 146 leaves of ledger paper bound in white leather. The endpapers at the front and back of the volume consist of marbled paper. There are three front flyleaves and two back flyleaves. The flyleaf closest to the text block on both ends is pasted to the adjacent ledger leaf; the ledger page that remained exposed became part of the text block. initially titled the book “James Burgess Book | September 1rst. 1841” on the verso of the first flyleaf. On the verso of the second leaf of the text block, he added a second title: “James Burgess Minister of the Gospel. | Second Book of record containing the history | of his life October 20th | 1841”.
In the front of the book, made miscellaneous notes on the flyleaves at unknown times. He inscribed a poem and additional notes in the first three pages of the front text block. Beginning on the fourth page of the text block, Burgess inscribed journal entries dated between 20 October 1841 and 10 December 1848 combined with intermittent retrospective summaries. He inscribed additional miscellaneous notes on the back flyleaves. On the last five pages of the text block at the end of the book—called here his “notebook”—he wrote additional notes and a poem. At an unknown time, Burgess turned the book upside down and inscribed on pages [6]–[24] accounts of discourses JS delivered between April 1843 and March 1844. Burgess initially wrote the discourse accounts in graphite. For the discourses inscribed on pages [6]–[12], Burgess subsequently retraced the characters with ink and then erased the graphite. The tightness of the letterspacing in the discourse accounts is comparable to that of the journal, suggesting that Burgess inscribed the accounts sometime in the 1840s.
The book remained in the possession of the Burgess family into the early twentieth century, as evidenced by genealogical notes made in unidentified handwriting on the flyleaves. Archival labels at the back of the book, the front cover, and the spine indicate that the book was acquired by the Church Historian’s Office (now CHL) by the mid-twentieth century.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Minutes and Discourses, 6–7 Apr. 1843, as Reported by William Clayton.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Christ says no man knoweth the day or the hour when the Son of man cometh.
This is a sweeping argument for sectarianism against Latterdayism Did Christ speak this as a general principle throughout all generations Oh no he spake in the present tense no man that was then liveing upon the footstool of God knew the day or the hour But he did not say that there was no man throughout all generations that should not know the day or the hour No for this would be in flat contradection with other scripture for the prophet says that God will do nothing but what he will reveal unto his Servants the prophets consequently if it is not made known to the Prophets it will not come to pass; again we find Paul 1rst of Thessilonians 5th chapter expressly points out the characters who shall [p. [6]]

not know the day nor the hour when the Son of Man cometh for says he it will come upon them as the theif or unawares. Who are they they are the children of darkness or night. But to the Saints he says yea are not of the night nor of darkness that that day should come upon you unawares. John the revelator says 14 chap 7th verse that the hour of his judgements is come they are precursers or forerunners of the comeing of Christ. Read Mathew 24 Chap and all the Prophets. He says then shall they see the sign of the comeing of the Son of Man in the clouds of Heaven. How are we to see it answer, As the lighting up of the morning or the dawning of the morning cometh from the east and Shineth unto the west— So also is the comeing of the Son of Man. The dawning of the morning makes its appearance in the east and moves along gradualy so also will the comeing of the Son of Man be. [p. [7]]

it will be small at its first appearance and gradually becomes larger untill every eye shall see it. Shall the Saints understand it Oh yes, Paul says so. Shall the wicked understand Oh no they attribute it to a natural cause. They will probably suppose it is too great Comets comeing in contact with each other
It will be small at first and will grow larger and larger untill it will be all in a blaze so that every eye shall see it. [p. [8]]