Discourse, 17 January 1843, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-17-january-1843-as-reported-by-wilford-woodruff/1
Date: January 17, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Wilford Woodruff

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 17 Jan. 1843]. Featured version copied [ca. 17 Jan. 1843] in Wilford Woodruff, Journal, vol. 5, 1 Jan. 1843–31 Dec. 1844, p. [2]; handwriting of ; Wilford Woodruff Journals and Papers, 1828–1898, CHL.
, “Wilford Woodruff’s Daily Journal and History in 1843,” Journal, vol. 5, 1 Jan. 1843–31 Dec. 1844; handwriting of ; 342 pages; Wilford Woodruff, Journals and Papers, CHL. Includes drawings, shorthand, Latin, Hebrew, redactions, and use marks.
Blank book measuring 6⅛ × 3⅞ × 1⅛ inches (16 × 10 × 3 cm) and containing 192 leaves. The front and back of the volume each contain two flyleaves, with the exterior leaves attached to pastedowns at the front and back of the volume. A label with “W. WOODRUFF” has been glued onto the front pastedown. The volume is bound in brown leather, and “JOURNAL” was printed on the spine. Sometime after 1930, someone attempted to repair portions of the spine with cellophane tape.
This volume was the fifth journal wrote in after his baptism in December 1833. On the first leaf after the pastedown and flyleaves, Woodruff titled the book “WILFORD WOODRUFF’s | DAILY JOURNAL | AND | HISTORY | IN | 1843”. The volume contains daily journal entries from 1 January 1843 to 31 December 1844. Woodruff apparently wrote regularly in daybooks and later copied those entries into his journal, expanding upon them. He inscribed all of his entries in brown or blue ink; redactions by Woodruff are in graphite and brown ink. An unknown scribe later labeled the verso of the front pastedown: “4 | January 1st 1843 | to | December 31. 1844”.
A catalog record created in March 1858 by the Church Historian’s Office (now CHL) indicates that Woodruff’s “Private Papers” were in the possession of the office by that time, probably because of his position as assistant church historian. A July 1858 inventory clarified that these papers included Woodruff’s journals. The journals likewise appear in an inventory produced around 1878. The volume’s inclusion in later Church Historian’s Office inventories suggests continuous institutional custody since 1858.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 17 January 1843, JS delivered a discourse at his home in , Illinois, on the kingdom of God and the baptisms performed by John the Baptist in the New Testament. The had proclaimed 17 January a day of “fastings, humiliations, and thanksgivings” in gratitude for the safe return of JS from his hearing in , Illinois, in which the request to extradite him to was discharged. As part of the fast day, the apostles requested that the of the Nauvoo wards organize meetings and ask those who had accompanied JS on his journey to relate the proceedings in Springfield to other members. Meetings were scheduled for eleven o’clock in the morning in the homes of various Latter-day Saints in and around Nauvoo. JS held one of these meetings in his own home, located near the southwest corner of Main and Water streets, where he delivered this discourse. , who attended the meeting, wrote briefly about the discourse in his journal.
JS may have had the subjects of this discourse on his mind since 1 January. On that date, he attended a Sunday service at the state capitol while in for his habeas corpus hearing. The Speaker of the Illinois House of Representatives informed JS and those accompanying him that they could use the representatives’ hall for their services. During the service, delivered a sermon in which he declared that from the time of Malachi to the time of John the Baptist the “voice of Revelation was not heard.— John came to prepare the way.— baptizd many of the different sects.” At the 17 January meeting, JS explained that the validity of John’s baptisms had been not only debated among Christians “for many years” but also discussed among the Saints. During a sermon the following Sunday, 22 January 1843, JS noted that questions regarding the topic had arisen at a recent meeting of the lyceum. As 17 January 1843 was a Tuesday, the day of the week when the lyceum traditionally met, this meeting also may have served as a gathering of the lyceum.
In this discourse, JS addressed the question of whether John’s baptisms functioned as valid Christian baptisms—as Baptists and other Christians believed—or if baptism by the Holy Ghost, available after the day of Pentecost, was the only acceptable type of baptism in Christianity. The answer to this question had ramifications for beliefs about the origins of the Christian church. If the baptism of John signified a valid Christian baptism, it suggested that Christ’s kingdom existed prior to the day of Pentecost. JS treated the organization of the kingdom of God and the baptism of John, therefore, as part of the same theme. Distinguishing the Latter-day Saint perspective from that of other faiths, he declared that the kingdom of God not only predated the day of Pentecost but also had existed since the days of Adam. He therefore asserted that the baptisms John performed were valid Christian baptisms for the remission of sins, preparatory to the reception of the Holy Ghost.
’s journal is the only source for this particular discourse. , who often wrote notes of JS’s discourses, was evidently sick on 17 January and therefore did not mention the sermon in either his own journal or the journal he was keeping for JS. Five days later, JS expanded on his comments in another discourse.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Br Joseph spoke to some length on the kingdom of God & the Baptism of John, he said the kingdom of God was set upon the earth in all ages from the days of Adam to the presant time whenever there was a man on earth who had authority to Administar the of the gospel or a priest of God & unto such a man God did reveal his will concerning the Baptism of John it was the Baptism of repentance unto remission of sins for the receiving of the Holy Ghost & it was the gospel Baptism, These were questions which had been in debate for many years & in some degree among the Saints, He also spoke upon the subject of honor & dishonor &c [p. [2]]