Revised Minutes and Discourses, 23 April–circa 8 May 1843

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/revised-minutes-and-discourses-23-april-circa-8-may-1843/1
Date: April 6, 1843
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

Revised Minutes, and JS, Discourses, , Hancock Co., IL, [23 Apr.–ca. 8 May 1843]. Featured version published [ca. 8 May 1843] in “Special Conference,” Times and Seasons, 1 May 1843, vol. 4, no. 12, 180–185. For more complete source information, see the source note for Letter to Isaac Galland, 22 Mar. 1839.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

The 1 May 1843 issue of the Times and Seasons published a revised version of the minutes from the 6 April 1843 sessions of the ’s special , including discourses delivered by JS during the midday and afternoon sessions. In the first session, JS had announced his desire that “the conference minutes go forth, to inform all of the order of doing business.” In particular, JS hoped to inform church members that the had been “appointd to this spicial mission of collecting funds for the ” and that no others were authorized to receive donations. The minutes also recounted deliberations over other significant items of business and decisions made by the conference.
was appointed clerk of the and in that capacity sought to record the proceedings and the accounts of discourses as he heard them. He struggled in this endeavor, at times capturing only fragmentary sentences and failing to note contextual information such as openings and closings of meetings, the names of those offering prayers, and sometimes the identities of speakers. Simultaneously, another JS scribe, , kept notes of the proceedings, which he later copied into JS’s journal. Richards more successfully captured complete sentences and contextual information. After reviewing Clayton’s minutes, JS determined they were insufficient and directed that they be revised. Over the following weeks, several of JS’s scribes as well as editors working in the church’s prepared multiple drafts—ultimately amalgamating Clayton’s minutes with Richards’s notes—before eventually publishing the minutes.
The process began on 23 April 1843, when JS “heard read” the “minutes of special conference”—most likely ’s minutes and accounts of discourses—which JS determined “were not explicit enough.” He indicated that he would “dictate them over again.” Clayton, presumably taking dictation from JS, then produced a new set of minutes. The resulting text was just over two pages long and provided an abbreviated outline that tracked the structure of the 6 April 1843 midday and afternoon sessions and the 7 April morning session. On the second and third pages of the draft of the revised minutes, Clayton used the numerals 1 through 4 to mark specific places where JS delivered “further remarks” during the conference, as the actual remarks were not included in the outline. Clayton then inserted corresponding numerals on his original minutes to help place these additional comments.
Soon after, another JS scribe, , expanded ’s revised minutes beyond the brief outline and copied the “further remarks” marked with numerals in Clayton’s original minutes. Times and Seasons editor then revised Sloan’s expanded draft, canceling short passages. On the final leaf of the draft, Taylor inscribed replacement language for the canceled passages and numbered his revisions to correspond with the deleted portions. He then typeset and printed a draft of Sloan’s expanded minutes and made additional editorial changes to the printed proof. Subsequently, Taylor made a second printed draft that incorporated his emendations.
On 3 May 1843, JS “rev[i]ewed the m[i]nutes,” presumably in typeset form. JS apparently still found the revised minutes and discourses wanting. noted in his personal journal on 3 May that he spent part of the day working on the “conference minut[e]s.” Richards clipped portions of the first and second printed drafts and attached the clippings to blank pages with adhesive wafers. Around the clippings, Richards added handwritten expansions drawn largely from his notes, thereby amalgamating his account of the conference with ’s original minutes and subsequent drafts. Based on Richards’s amalgamated draft, typeset a third draft and made a new proof sheet, to which he added more emendations. Through each step of this revision process, JS’s words—as captured by Clayton and Richards—were changed, polished, and refined by his scribes, apparently without his direct involvement. Nevertheless, the scribes retained some of his distinctive phrases, such as the admonition that church members not “make a bridge of [his] nose.”
The final form of the 6 April 1843 revised conference minutes and accounts of discourses was published in the 1 May 1843 issue of the Times and Seasons. Evidence within the issue indicates that the paper was delayed and did not appear until 8 May or later. Although exact subscription numbers for the Times and Seasons are unknown for 1843, at least a few thousand copies of the issue were printed and circulated among church members, including Latter-day Saints living in branches outside of . Information in the published minutes that departs substantially from either Clayton’s minutes or Richards’s notes is identified in the annotation.
The survival of both the original minutes and multiple prepublication drafts makes the publication record of the April 1843 conference unique. For previous conferences held in , only the final, published versions of the minutes are extant. JS’s involvement in the publication process for the April 1843 minutes also seems to have been distinctive in comparison to earlier conference minutes.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

SPECIAL .
Thursday Morning, April 6, 1843.
11 o’clock, A. M.
A Special Conference of the , was convened on the platform of the . There were present, , : , , , , , , and , of the ; and a very large assembly of the and saints.
Elder announced that Joseph Smith was detained on business, [p. 180]

but would be present soon. He called upon the choir to sing an Hymn. opened by prayer, and another Hymn was sung. Elder then read the 3d chapter of the 2d epistle of Peter, and spoke upon the subject of the resurrection. At ten minutes before 12 o’clock President Joseph Smith, Elder , and Elder arrived.
At 12 o’clock gave way for the business of the .
President Joseph Smith commenced by saying, We all ought to be thankful for the privilege we enjoy this day, of meeting so many of the Saints, and for the warmth and brightness of the heavens over our heads,— and it truly makes the countenances of this great multitude to look cheerly, and gladdens the hearts of all present.
He next stated the object of the meeting, which was,
First, to ascertain the standing of the , which he should do by presenting himself before the conference for trial.
Second, to take into consideration the expediency of sending out the , or some of them, or somebody else, amongst the of the , to obtain stock to build the , for the time has come to build it.
Third, the elders will have the privilege of appeals from the different conferences, to this, if any such cases exist. These, said the president, are the principle items of business which I have at present to lay before you. This is not a general, but an annual conference.
It is necessary that this conference give importance to the . A prejudice exists against building the , in favor of the , and the conference are required to give stress to the building of the . This is the most important matter for the time being, for there is no place in this , where men of wealth, and character, and influence, from abroad, can go to repose themselves, and it is necessary we should have such a place. The church must build it or abide the result of not fulfilling the commandment.
President Joseph then asked the conference if they were satisfied with the First Presidency, so far as he was concerned, as an individual, to preside over the whole church; or would they have another? If, said he, I have done any thing that ought to injure my character, reputation, or standing; or have dishonored our religion by any means in the sight of men, or , or in the sight of men and women, I am sorry for it, and if you will forgive me, I will endeavor to do so no more. I do not know that I have done any thing of the kind; but if I have, come forward and tell me of it. If any one else has any objection to me, I want you to come boldly and frankly, and tell of it; and if not, ever after hold your peace.
Motion was made and seconded that President Joseph Smith continue president of the whole church. After a few minutes silence, the motion was put by , when one vast sea of hands was presented, and the motion was carried unanimously.
President Joseph returned his thanks to the assembly for the manifestation of their confidence, and said he would serve them according to the best ability God should give him.
The first presidency being disposed of, President Joseph said he did not know any thing against the Twelve if he did he would present them for trial. It is not right that all the burden of the , should rest on a few individuals; and we will now consider the propriety of sending the Twelve to collect means for the . There has been too great a solicitude, in individuals, for the building of the , to the exclusion of the . The have had too great latitude to practice fraud, by receiving donations and never making report. The church has suffered loss, and I am opposed to that system of collecting funds when any elder may receive moneys.
I am opposed to any man’s handling the public funds of the church who is not duly authorzed.
I advise that some means be devised for transacting business on a sure foundation. The Twelve are the most suitable persons to perform this business; and I want the conference to devise some means to bind them as firm as the pillars of heaven, if possible. The Twelve were always honest, and it will do them no hurt to bind them.
It has been reported that they receive wages at two dollars per day for their services. I have never heard this till recently, and I do not believe it. I know the Twelve have never had any wages at all. They have fulfilled their duty— they have always gone where they were sent, and have labored with their hands for their support, when at home. If we send them into the world to collect funds, we want them to return those funds to this place, that they may be appropriated to the very purpose for which they were designed. I go in for binding up the Twelve, solid, putting them under bonds; and let this conference institute an order to this end, and that the travelling expenses of the agents shall not be borne out of the funds collected for building these houses, and let no man pay money or stock into the hands of the Twelve, except he transmit [p. 181]

an account of the same immediately to the Trustee in Trust; and let no man but the have authority to act as for the and .
I would suggest the propriety of your saying that no money should ever be sent by any man except it be some one whom you have appointed as agent, and stop every other man from receiving moneys. It has been customary for any to receive moneys for the when he is travelling, but this system of things opens a wide field for every kind of imposition, as any man can assume the name of a Mormon elder, and gather his pockets full of money and go to . Many complaints have come to me of money being sent that I have never received. I will mention one case. He is a good man; his name is , from Akron, New York. His brother had been east on business for him, and there received twenty or twenty-five dollars, as a donation to the , which he put in ’s bag, with his money, and forgot to take it out before he returned the bag. Two or three days after his return, he called on his for the money belonging to the church; but thought his brother had paid out too much of his money, and he would keep the ’s money to make good his own. I called to see about the money, and he treated me very politely, but did not give me to understand he ever meant to pay it. He said he did not know at the time, that there was any church money in the bag; that he had paid it out, and he had none now.
-[The brother who brought the money from the east, stated to the , that he did not think it was because his was short of funds, that he kept it, for he had money enough. He had told him that he should not be out of funds again; that his had twenty dollars of the church funds, and some dried fruit for the president.]-
President Joseph resumed. I give this as a sample of a thousand instances. We cannot give an account to satisfy the people, on the church books, unless something is done. I propose that you send your moneys for the by the Twelve, some one or all; or some agent of your own choosing, and if you send by others, and the money is lost, ’tis lost to yourselves; I cannot be responsible for it.— Every thing that falls into my hands shall be appropriated to the very thing it was designed for.
Next, it is wrong for the church to make a bridge of my nose, in appropriating church funds. The incorporation required of me securities, which were lodged in the proper hands as the law directs; and I am responsible for all that comes into my hands.
Next, the are bound to me in the sum of $2000, with good securities. If they appropriate any property where they ought not, they are liable to me for it; and the church are running to them, with funds every day, and thus make a bridge over my nose. I am not responsible for it. If you put it into the hands of the Temple Committee, I, nor my , know nothing of it.
So long as you consider me worthy to hold this office, it is your duty to attend to the legal forms belonging to the business; and if not, put some other one in my place. My desire is that the conference minutes may go forth in such form, as those abroad may learn the order of doing business; and that the Twelve be appointed to this special mission, of collecting funds for the ; so that all may know how to send their funds safe, or bring them themselves, and deliver them to the Trustee in Trust, or my , who can always be be found in my . Who are the Temple Committee that they should receive the funds? They are nobody.
When I went to the White House, at , and presented letters of introduction, from , Governor of , to , he looked at it very insignificantly and said, ‘! !! who’s ? ’s nobody.” I erred in spirit. I confess my mistake; and I here make my apology to all the world, and let it be recorded on earth and in heaven, that I am clear of the sin of being angry with for saying that “’s nobody.” I have been sorry for it ever since. All property ought to go through the hands of the Trustee in Trust.
There have been complaints against the Temple Committee for appropriating church funds more freely for the benefit of their own children, than to others, who need assistance more than they do; and the parties may have till Saturday to prepare for trial.
It was then voted unanimously that the Twelve be appointed a committee to collect funds to build the , and receive moneys for the , with this proviso:
That the Twelve give bonds for the safe delivery of all funds, coming into their hands belonging to the and , to the Trustee in Trust, and that the payor, also, make immediate report to the Trustee in Trust, of all moneys paid by him to the Twelve; and that the instructions of President Joseph Smith, to the conference, be carried into execution. [p. 182]

proposed that the sign triplicate receipts, for moneys received, for the benefit of the parties concerned.
Elder objected, and said he should never give receipts for cash, except such as he put into his own pocket, for his own use; for it was calculated to make trouble hereafter, and there were better methods of transacting the business; and more safe for the parties concerned; that he wished this speculation to stop, and would do all in his power to put it down: To which the Twelve responded, amen. asked if any one knew any things against any one of the Twelve, any dishonesty; if they did, he wanted it exposed; he said he knew of one who was not dishonest. He also referred to muzzling the ox that treadeth out the corn, &c.
President Joseph said, I will answer . The Twelve need not spend all their time abroad, they can spend the time belonging to the , for to collect funds; and the remainder of the time they may labor for their support; and they may call on the public to supply their wants. It is no more for the Twelve to go abroad and earn their living in this way than it is for others. The idea of not muzzling the ox, is a good old Quaker song, but we will make the ox tread out the corn first and then feed him. I am bold to declare that I have never taken the first farthing of funds for my own use, till I have first consulted the proper authorities. When there was no quorum of the Twelve or for me to consult, I have asked the , who had not particular business with it, but I did it for the sake of peace. -[ said it was so.]- Let the stop all from collecting funds, except the Twelve.— When a man is sent to preach the first principles of the gospel, he should preach that and let the rest alone.
The choir sung a hymn, and elder prayed, and Twelve minutes before 2 o’clock P. M., conference adjourned for one hour.
3 o’clock, P. M.
Patriarch, , commenced by saying that he had some communications to make to the conference, on stealing, and he would do it while waiting for Joseph; and referred to the article in the last number of the ‘Wasp.’ Said he, I have had an interview with a man who formerly belonged to the church, and he revealed to me that there is a band of men, and some who pretend to be strong in the faith of the doctrine of the Latter Day Saints, but they are hypocrites, and some who do not belong to the church, who are bound together by secret oaths, and obligations and penalties, to keep the secret; and they hold that it is right to steal from any one who does not belong to the church provided they consecrate two-thirds of it to the building of the . They are also making bogus money.
This man says he has become convinced of the error of his ways, and has come away from them to escape their fury. I wish to warn you all not to be duped by such men, for they are the Gadianters of the last days.
He then read from the Wasp as re-published from the Times and Seasons, his own affidavit, and the proceedings of the authorities of the church generally, dated Nov. 26, 1841. The man who told me said, “this secret band refer to the bible, book of Doctrine and Covenants, and book of Mormon to substantiate their doctrine:” but no such doctrines are taught there.
They say it has been taught from this , that they are the little foxes that spoil the vines, and the are the big foxes: and the big foxes wanted the little foxes to get out of the and spread abroad, so that the big foxes might have a chance; which every body knows is false: all these things are used to decoy the foolish and unwary.
I will mention two names, David Holman and , they were living in my house I went to them and asked them if they were stealing for a livelihood? Holman confessed that he had stolen from the world, not from the brethren. I told them to get out of my house. David asked me to forgive him, and he lifted his hands towards heaven and swore if I would forgive him he would never do so again. Soon after he went to , where he was found stealing salt, as is currently reported; he then stole a skiff and came across the , stole a barrel of flour that had just been landed from a steamer, rowed down the river to and sold the flower for $2 00, saying he had picked it up in the river, and was likely a little damaged, got his pay, and went his way. would not promise to quit stealing, but said he would go to . I tell you to-day, the man that steals shall not long after be brought to the Penitentiary. They will soon be brought to condign punishment. I demand in the presence of God that you will exert your wit and your power to bring such characters to justice, if you do not the curse of God will rest upon you, such things would ruin any people. Should I catch a latter day saint stealing, he is the last man to whom I would shew mercy.
President Joseph Smith said, I think it best to continue this subject. I want the elders to make honorable proclamation abroad concerning what the feelings of the first presidency is, for stealing has never been tolerated by them. I [p. 183]

despise a thief above ground. He would betray me if he could get the opportunity. I would know that he would be a detriment to my cause, and if I were the biggest rogue in the world, he would steal my horse when I wanted to run away.
It has been said that some were afraid to disclose what they know of these secret combinations, consequently I issued a proclamation which you may read in the Wasp, No. 48, which the president read,
PROCLAMATION,
To the Citizens of .
Whereas it appears by the re-publication of the foregoing proceedings and delaration, that I have not altered my views on the subject of stealing: And whereas it is reported that there now exists a band of desperadoes, bound by oaths of secrecy, under severe penalties in case any member of the combination divulges their plans of stealing and conveying properties from station to station, up and down the and other routes: And whereas it is reported that the fear of the execution of the pains and penalties of their secret oaths, on their persons, prevents some of the members of said secret asociation, (who have, through falsehood and deceit, been drawn into their snares,) from divulging the same to the legally Constituted authorities of the land:
Know ye, therefore, That I, Joseph Smith, Mayor of the city of , will grant and ensure protection against all personal mob violence, to each and every citizen of this , who will freely and voluntarily come before me, and truly make known the names of all such abominable characters as are engaged in said secret combination for stealing, or are accessary thereto in any manner; and I would respectfully solicit the co-operation of all ministers of Justice, in this and the neighboring states, to ferret out a band of thievish outlaws from our midst.
Given under my hand at , this 25th day of March, A. D. 1843.
JOSEPH SMITH,
Mayor of said .
If any man is afraid to disclose what he knows about this gang of thieves let him come to me, and tell me the truth, and I will protect him from violence. Thieving must be stopped.
Opportunity was then offered to the to bring forward their appeals from other , but no case was presented.
President Joseph continued his remarks and said; it is necessary that I make a proclamation, concerning ; and also in relation to the economy of the on that side of the
It has been supposed that I made a great bargain with a certain at . He came to my house about the 1st of August 1842, a stranger, and put on a long face, and said he was “a stranger in the place, and he was in distress; and having understood that I was very benevolent, he had come to me for help. He said that he was about to loose $1400 at Sheriff’s sale for $300 cash. I have money in , which I expect in two or three days; but the sale takes place to-morrow, and I want to hire money for two or three days.” I thought of this subject over night. I did not like the looks of the man, but thought I, he is a stranger. I have been a stranger in a strange land, and whenever I have asked for assistance I have obtained it. It may be he is an honest man, and if I turn him away I shall be guilty of the sin of ingratitude, and I had better loose $200 in good faith, than be guilty of ingratitude. So I let him have the money and he gave me his note payable on demand, saying “whenever you call on me you shall have the money.”
When I was taken with ’s writ, I asked him for the money. “You ought to have it,” said he, “but I have not got my money from , I shall have it in a few days.” He then stated, “I have a curious plan in my mind which I think may be profitable both for you and me. It is this, “I will give you a deed of all the land you bought of ; which is 20,000 acres: you paid the notes, and ought to have them; they are in my hands as his , and I will give them up.” I also propose deeding to you one half of my right to all my land in the ; and all I ask in return, is for you to give your influence to help to build up .”
I replied I have not asked for your property, and do not want it. I would not give a snap of my finger for it; but I will receive the papers, and if I find things as you say I will use my influence to build up ; but I will give you nothing for the land, and I want the $200 which is due me. He made out the deeds and gave them to me, and I got them recorded. He also gave up the most of the notes. I then said to , if you will go there, with the brethren, I will give you the property; but he would not accept it.
This man called for some more favors, and I let him have some cloth, &c. to the amount of six or seven hundred dollars. I have offered this land to many if they would go and settle there; but nobody will go. He began soon after to say to the brethren what obligations I was under to him. I wrote him a letter on the subject, but I have since found he is swindling, [p. 184]

and there is no prospect of getting any thing from him.
He is owing me about $1100, and I thought it my duty to publish his rascality, that the might do the same in that , and prevent the brethren from being imposed upon.— He has got a writing to this effect, that if he owned as much as he pretended, and would do as he said, I would give my influence to build up , and on other terms.
His name is , he took this plan to swindle me out of money, cloth, boards, &c. I want all the congregation to know it. I was not going to use any influence to have the brethren to go to be swindled. My advice is, if they choose, that they come away from and not go there more; it is not a good location.
I am not so much a christian as many suppose I am, when a man undertakes to ride me for a horse, I feel disposed to kick up and throw him off, and ride him. David did so, and so did Joshua. My only weapon is my tongue. I would not buy property in the : I considered it stooping to accept it as a gift.
(To be continued.) [p. 185]