Discourse, 13 August 1843–B, as Reported by Willard Richards

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-13-august-1843-b-as-reported-by-willard-richards/1
Date: August 13, 1843
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 13 Aug. 1843]. Featured version copied [ca. 13 Aug. 1843] in JS, Journal, 1842–1844, bk. 3, pp. [51]–[55]; handwriting of ; JS Collection, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, 1842–1844.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On the afternoon of 13 August 1843, in , Illinois, JS delivered a discourse on a variety of ecclesiastical, civic, and social topics. Among the subjects he addressed were social decorum at meetings, disruptions caused at local drinking establishments, the latest election, and his own personal conflicts with several individuals, including a recent physical confrontation with , Illinois, tax collector . Land payments had been a source of considerable tension between church leaders and Bagby for well over a year. JS reportedly paid and county taxes to Bagby in March 1842 but refused to pay taxes assessed on lots in the platted town of . According to an inscription recorded in one of the Hancock County plat books in January 1842, JS had vacated the Commerce lots “now inclosed within the general Boundaries & limits of the City of Nauvoo.” JS thus believed that Bagby’s demand that JS pay taxes on the Commerce lots was illegal and that continued efforts to collect taxes on these lots were “continued by our enemies on the tax list for the purpose of getting more money from the saints.” In addition to this, Bagby wrote at least two letters to , JS’s personal secretary and friend, in March 1843 demanding that he pay a tax on lands that the county assessor believed belonged to Richards. Asserting that the land belonged to the church rather than him personally, Richards refused to pay the tax and advised the assessor (and Bagby, by implication) to correct the error.
During summer 1843, sheriff turned the deed to a piece of land owned by JS over to a Mr. Hamilton of , Illinois, because JS was apparently delinquent in paying the property’s taxes—a charge JS vehemently denied. When JS encountered on the streets of on 1 August, he inquired about the tax title. In his journal, reported that the conversation between the two men became heated and that JS told Bagby that he had “abused the citizens here and was always doing so.” After Bagby called him a liar, JS stepped out of his carriage. Bagby then picked up a rock, and JS became “so enraged that he followed him & struck him two or three times” before alderman separated the two men. Immediately following the incident, JS went to the office of , who acted as a justice of the peace, to pay a fine for his actions.
In addition to giving an account of his confrontation with , JS described another distressing incident that occurred the prior week. On 7 August, when JS had proceeded to the polls in the voting precinct to cast his vote in the congressional election, he was reportedly “abused” for attempting to vote in the wrong precinct. Shortly after he closed his discourse, JS returned to the stand to accuse , one of his counselors in the church’s , of betraying him and conspiring to have him extradited to . Though Ridgon became JS’s counselor in 1832, the two men experienced intermittent periods of discord beginning in spring 1842. In January 1843, furnished JS with a letter written by excommunicated church member to Rigdon and Pratt outlining his plan to have JS extradited to Missouri to face charges stemming from 1838 conflicts between the Saints in Missouri and their opponents in that state; the letter apparently led JS to believe that Rigdon was in league with their former colleague and bitter enemy. Though JS and Rigdon temporarily reconciled in mid-February, JS’s doubts about Rigdon persisted. In late March, JS dictated a letter to Rigdon in which he talked about their past grievances and informed him that he intended to have him disfellowshipped. JS decided to take this action by 13 August, after receiving a report that Rigdon allegedly told former governor that he would use his influence to “to have Joseph Smith arrested, and deliverd into the hands of the Missourians.” After expressing his concerns about Rigdon in the featured discourse, JS then called for a vote to disfellowship him, which the congregation affirmed.
Church members and attended JS’s discourse, and both men produced handwritten manuscripts that captured portions of his words. Richards likely recorded rough notes of the discourse on loose paper or in a notebook before inscribing a more polished account in JS’s journal. Clayton’s more polished version also suggests that he reconstructed it from notes or memory. Both versions are featured here in their entirety.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Joseph. as Mayor instructed the . to keep the Ladies camp ground clear of young men.
the is enlarging. very fast. we have so many learned men in this city. & the height of knowledge is not to know enough to keep out out of the way. I have been feretting out Grog. shops. groceries & beer barrels [p. [51]]

. of . who has exercised more despotic power over the inhibtants [inhabitants] of this than any despot of the Eastern country. I met. he gave me some abusive language took up a stone to throw at me I siezd him by the throat to choke him off—
at the Election. on the hill they got a constable name of King— I dnt [don’t] know what need there was of a constable.
old Father Perry said why you cant vote in this precinct. King took me by the collar [p. [52]]

and told me to go away.
All our wrongs have arisen under the power and authority of democracy and I have swron [sworn] that this arm shall fall from my shoulder and. this tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth. before I will vote for them. unless they make me satisfaction & I feel it sensibly.—
I was abused and neglected at the ground. and there was not a man in the crowd to say— this is Bro Joseph this is the Mayor—
then spoke of the grog shops and the disturbance of the crowd in the street by Messoer’s [Moeser’s] grocery.
Warned the grog shops to be scarce after this time and the [p. [53]]

peace officers to take notice of the grog shops and give him seasonable notice.
closed 20 minutes— 3 p.m.—
returnd and said he had forgottn one thing. we have had certain traders in this who have been writing falsehoods to . . . . there is a certain man in this city who has made a covenant to bretray and give me up. and that too before commenced his persecution. this testimony I have from gentlemn from abroad—— and I do not wish to give their names.— —
I most solmnly proclaim the withdrawal of my fellowship from this man, on the condition that the foregoing be true—— and let the [p. [54]]

Saints proclaim it abroad.
that he may no longer be acknowledged as my counselor and that all who feel to sanction my proceedings— & views will manifest it by uplifted hands & it was a unanimous vote that be disfellowed and his dimanded.— [p. [55]]