Discourse, 9 July 1843

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-9-july-1843/1
Date: July 9, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Willard Richards

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 9 July 1843]. Featured version copied [ca. 9 July 1843] in JS, Journal, 1842–1844, bk. 2, pp. [300]–[304]; handwriting of ; JS Collection, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, 1842–1844.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 9 July 1843 in , Illinois, JS delivered a discourse comparing the with other Christian denominations. The occasion was the first Sunday meeting at which JS preached to the Saints after his 23 June arrest in , Illinois, and his subsequent discharge by the Nauvoo Municipal Court on 1 July. Following the discharge, , the sheriff of , Missouri, and the agent authorized to transport JS out of following the arrest, petitioned Illinois governor to dispatch the militia to retake JS. As of 9 July, word had not yet reached Nauvoo as to Ford’s decision. This anticipation aggravated tensions between the Saints and their antagonists outside of Nauvoo, leading JS and other church leaders to employ various strategies to influence public opinion. Similarly, in this discourse JS sought to emphasize the points of agreement between Latter-day Saint beliefs and those of other religions. According to , who was present at the meeting, JS explained that he differed “but little from other men” in terms of religious beliefs, although he identified “a few points” of divergence.
Much of the discourse was framed as a dialogue between JS and an interlocutor who asked a series of questions regarding Latter-day Saint beliefs. It is unclear if JS was responding to a past conversation with a specific individual or if he was generalizing from several such conversations. Just over one month prior to giving the discourse, he met with Erastus DeWolf, an Episcopal priest from , Illinois. The content of their discussion is unknown, but the following Sunday, 11 June 1843, DeWolf preached before a Latter-day Saint audience that included JS on Christian principles outlined in Hebrews 6, including faith, , the , resurrection, and eternal judgment. In his 9 July 1843 discourse, JS did not refer directly to DeWolf, but he did reference some of the topics DeWolf addressed, such as baptism and the laying on of hands, suggesting that he was at least partly responding to the priest. While differentiating the Saints’ beliefs from those of other religions, JS’s discourse also built on common ground and expressed toleration and respect for the beliefs of others. Richards later described the sermon as “a sweet conciliating discourse” that was “expressive of good feeling to all men.”
As JS’s scribe, may have captured rough notes of the discourse as he heard it in a small booklet or on loose leaves of paper, later transferring the notes (which are apparently not extant) into JS’s journal, as was apparently his common practice. The uneven nature of Richards’s account of the discourse suggests that he did minimal polishing and expansion when copying the notes.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Joseph remarced [remarked] that all was well between him and the heavens that he had no emnity against any one. and as the prayer of Jesus. or his pattern so prayed Joseph. Father forgive me my trespasses. as I forgive those who trespass. against me. for I freely forgive all men.—— if we would secure & cultivate the love of others we must love others. even our enemies— as well as friends “why is it this babler gains so many followers. & retains them”? because I possess the principle of love, All I can offer the world a [p. [300]]

good heart & a good hand. Mormons can testify whether I am willing to lay down my life for a mormon;
If it has been demonstrated that I have been willing to die for a mormon I am bold to declare before heaven that I am just as ready to die for a presbytiran. a baptist or any other denomination.— It is a love of liberty which inspires my soul. civil and religious liberty— were diffused into my soul by my grandfathers. while they dandld me on their knees.— and shall I want friends? no!——
“Where in do you differ from others in your religious. views?”— In reality & essencce we do not differ so far in our religious views but that we could [p. [301]]

all dring drink into one principle of love
one [of] the grand fundamental principles of Mormonism is to receivee thruth [truth] let it come from where it may.— we believe in the great Eloheem. who— sits enthrond in yonder heavens.— so do the presbyterian. If as a skillful mechanic In taking a welding heat I use a borax & allum. &c—— and succeed in welding you all together shall I not have attaind a good object.
if I esteem mankind to be in error shall I bear them down? no! I will will lift them up.— & in his own way if I cannot persuade him my way is better? & I will ask no man to believe as I do. [p. [302]]

Do you believe in Jesus christ &c? So do I. christians should cultivate the friendship of each other. & will do it.
“Do you believe in the of infants”? says the presbyterian.— No.— “why”. because it is no where written in the book circumcision is not Baptism. Baptism is for remission of sins.— childrn have no sins— he Jesus blessed them— do what you have seen me do— all made alive in christ. faith & repentance.— we are agreed.— baptism. yes by immersion. the Hebrew is the root. to bury immerse—— Do you believe this no.— I believe in being converted.—— I believe in this tinaceously [tenaciously]
Holy Ghost by [p. [303]]

Evidance. Peter on days of Pentecost; might as well a bag of sand as a man if not done in view of the getting of the Holy ghost.— baptism by water is but 1/2 a baptism.— & is good for nothing without the other. the Holy Ghost.— I am free to day—
messenger has returned with offers of peace. from the
except a man be born again. of water & of the spirit can in no wise enter into the Kingdom—
Though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel [p. [304]]