Discourse, between 11 June and 23 July 1843

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-between-11-june-and-23-july-1843/1
Date: July 9, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of James Burgess

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, between 11 June and 23 July 1843]. Featured version copied [between 11 June 1843 and ca. 1848] in James Burgess, Journal and Notebook, Oct. 1841–Dec. 1848, verso, pp. [11]–[12]; handwriting of ; James Burgess, Journals, 1841–1848, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Discourse, 6 Apr. 1843–B, as Reported by James Burgess.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

Sometime in June or July 1843, JS gave a discourse in , Illinois, explaining the belief that Deity is both embodied and omnipresent. Traditional Protestant doctrine stipulated that God was “without body, parts, or passions,” which supported a belief in divine omnipresence but challenged an understanding of divine embodiment. JS’s translations and revelations departed from this view. For example, JS’s 1830 revision of the Bible included a passage indicating that God created humans “in the image of his own body.” By the early 1840s, JS was explicitly teaching that God the Father had a body. In 1841, he was quoted as saying that “the Son Had a Tabernicle & so had the father.” On 2 April 1843, JS reportedly taught that “the Father has a body of flesh & bones as tangible as mans the Son also.” On the same occasion, he dismissed the idea that “the father and the Son dwells in a mans heart” as “an old Sectarian notion.” JS also taught that “the Holy Ghost is a personage of spirit” that could “descend upon” humans.
JS reaffirmed this doctrine of divine corporeality and omnipresence in the undated discourse of June or July 1843 that is featured here. According to church member , who inscribed an account of the discourse in his notebook, JS was responding to a “sectarian preist” who had asked JS about the church’s teachings regarding the embodiment of God. Burgess did not date the discourse, but he inscribed it between accounts of sermons JS gave on 11 June and on 23 July, apparently placing the discourse within this time frame. JS spoke publicly on multiple occasions during these months, and comparison with other extant accounts of discourses given during this period suggests two possible dates—11 June and 9 July 1843—for when JS could have made the comments written in Burgess’s notebook. In JS’s discourse on the morning of 11 June, he commented on the relationship between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost and critiqued the traditional Christian understanding of the Trinity; this may have led to comments on divine corporeality and omnipresence. On 9 July, JS answered questions posed by an unnamed—and possibly fictional—interlocutor in a fashion similar to that in the undated discourse recorded by Burgess. However, , who recorded detailed contemporaneous accounts of both the 11 June and 9 July discourses, did not include references to divine embodiment. Without additional evidence, the date JS delivered the discourse reported by Burgess remains uncertain.
’s inscription of the discourse in his notebook is fairly polished, which strongly suggests that he wrote the account after the fact, likely reconstructing it from memory or from notes he took at the time or both. He initially wrote the account in graphite but subsequently reinscribed the text in ink and erased the graphite.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

In answer to a question asked by a sectarian preist namely How is that you Mormons hold that God is an Omnipresent being when at the same time he is a personage of Tabernacle.
After God had created the Heavens and the Earth. He came down and on the sixth day said let us make man in our own image In whose image. In the image of the Gods created they them. Male and female innocent harmless and spotless bearing the same character and the same image as the Gods. And when man fell he did not lose his image but his character still retaining the image of his maker Christ who is the image of man is also the express image of his Fathers person so says Paul. For in him Christ dwelt the fulness of the Godhead bodily. Why? because He was the brightness of his glory;
Joseph Smith Prophet. [p. [11]]

and the express image of his person.
Ques. What person? Gods person, Hebrews 1st chap 3 verse And through the atonement of Christ and the resurection and obediance to the Gospel we shall again be conformed to the image of his Son Jesus Christ, then we shall have attained to the image glory and character of God. What part of God is omnipresent? read the 37 chap of Ezekel. It is the spirit of God which proceeds from him consequently God is in the four winds of Heaven and when man receives inteligence is it not by the spirit of God? [p. [12]]