Minutes and Discourse, 19 February 1843

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-19-february-1843/1
Date: February 19, 1843
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

Nauvoo high council, Minutes, and JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL], 19 Feb. 1843. Featured version copied [ca. 19 Feb. 1843] in “Minutes of the High Council of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints of Nauvoo Hancock County Illinois from the 20th of May 1842 to the 19th February 1843,” pp. 32–34; handwriting of ; Nauvoo High Council Minutes, CHL. Includes redactions.
The featured document is in a notebook containing seventeen leaves that measure 11½ × 7–7¾ inches (29 × 18–20 cm). Each page is ruled with thirty-five printed lines (now faded) with header space. The leaves have been bound together with a string in a single gathering. Skipping the first page, paginated the notebook 2–34 and inscribed the minutes using blue and black ink. The upper and lower outside corners of the notebook are missing, apparently from damage caused by a rodent.
At some point prior to April 1855, Stout transferred the minutes to the Church Historian’s Office (now CHL), suggesting continuous institutional custody.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 19 February 1843, JS presided over an ecclesiastical trial for and held by the in , Illinois. According to JS’s journal, Law and Nickerson “had been fighting [for] some time p[r]evious” over ownership of two of the largest in the across from Nauvoo. The islands were sold in 1842 after the District Court for the Territory of ruled in 1841 regarding conflicting property titles in the “” in , Iowa Territory. The court decreed that the entire tract, which included the islands in the Mississippi, should be divided into 101 parcels of equal value and then distributed to legitimate claimants. As the judgment was carried into effect, the commissioners appointed to divide the land argued that the many islands in the Mississippi and could not be divided equally. Instead, they recommended that the islands be sold at a public auction held in April 1842.
Before the auction, believed that he had entered into an arrangement with to purchase islands 8 and 9—the largest islands for sale—and Nickerson had even given Morrison money for the purchase. At the auction, however, Morrison partnered with , and shortly thereafter the two men received a deed to the islands. Nevertheless, it appears Nickerson assumed that Morrison had made the purchase in Nickerson’s name and that Nickerson was the rightful owner of the islands. This issue came to a head sometime in winter 1842–1843, when Nickerson attempted to harvest lumber from one of the islands. later recalled witnessing an argument between Law and Nickerson at Law’s store in which Law accused Nickerson of trespassing on his island and stealing lumber. As the disagreement became more heated, about a half dozen men—including —joined the argument in support of Law. Ultimately, the two men came to blows, and the other men had to physically separate them.
After the fight, and , who were both members, preferred charges against each other to the high council, which met to hear the combined case on 19 February 1843 in the main room of the upper story of JS’s . JS and attended and presided over the meeting alongside Nauvoo president and Marks’s counselor . Although Hyrum Smith occasionally attended the high council meetings, which were often (though not in this case) held in his office, this is the only time JS’s attendance was noted in the official high council minutes from September 1842 to February 1843. It is unclear why JS attended this particular trial, though it may have had something to do with his brother’s role in the earlier conflict. Alternatively, JS may have particularly objected to the crowd’s actions during the fight between Law and Nickerson. The trial opened at nine o’clock in the morning and lasted until well after midnight due to the number of witnesses and the complexity of the case. JS’s journal described the experience as “listening to the proof of a great Big nothing.” Ultimately, JS expressed his disagreement with the district court’s decision to sell the islands but directed the two men to come to some compromise and honor Nickerson’s claim. Law and Nickerson agreed to JS’s conditions and then “shook hands in token of settlement of all diffculties.” Although the minutes repeatedly refer to “Brs Laws” (plural), suggesting that Wilson Law’s brother was likewise involved in the dispute, this was apparently an error. Extant legal and property records, the account of the trial in JS’s journal, and later reminiscences refer only to Wilson Law’s involvement.
, the clerk of the , kept the minutes for the meeting, presumably taking notes during the meeting that he later refined as he copied them into the high council’s minute book.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

February 19th 1843 The met according to adjournment at the Lodge Room. Presidents Joseph & & Presiding
Councellors present (1 pro tem (2 (3 (4 (5 (6 (7 (8 ( 9 (10 (11 (12 pro tem.
Prayer by .
The case of and was brought up. Wherein a charge was prefered against by and also a charge against by .
There being charges prefered by both parties against each other the Council decided that they should go into an investigation of all their difficulties on both sides of the question, both parties to bring up all matters of grievances against each other which was also according to the wish of the parties. to [p. 32]

be plaintiff. One were appointed to speak on a side viz. (7 and (8 .
There were a great many witnesses on both sides and a very long trial ensued which lasted from 9 o’clock A.M. till midnight. The essential grounds of difficulty was concerning the title to some of the in the , both parties supposing they had a good right to the same island or a part of an island. The matter was as follows. There had been a decree, in the Court of in , to sell the said islands as a part of the of land and put in money with , to buy his claim, who was to bid it off for him & make a deed to , which he did not do but sold the island to Brs Laws & did did not reserve the claim for which he had purchased with s money neither did he let Brs Laws know the situation of ’s Claim. Neither party knew the situation of the others claim and each party supposed the other to be trespassing on his claim. Moreover there was a Law in the Teritory of which guarenteed to each actual settler his claim on certain conditions by which law had a good title to his claim.
President Joseph Smith spoke at length on the subject clearly showing the situation of the affair, and what was the true nature of the titles to the islands. That they did not belong to the and also that the Court of Chancery had no right to sell them. That they were refused lands which the goverment did not see fit to do any thing with consequently were free plunder or belonged to the actual setler &c although, as they were to be sold, it was best that the brethren buy them to avoid any difficulty with those out of the , who might buy them &c
As the matter appeared to be, whether should give a title to his claim according to the money he put in or not (i. E.) a title from the Court [p. 33]

of such as he had. That taking the situation of the islands into consideration and the nature of their titles he gave the following decision.
Let Brs Laws deed what they feel that they can conscientiously do to & let say that he will accept it and strike hands and be friends henceforth.
Both parties agreed to the decision and shook hands in friendship which decision was Sanctioned by the
Adjd till the 25th inst.
Clerk. [22 lines blank] [p. 34]