Discourse, 30 June 1843, as Reported by Willard Richards

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-30-june-1843-as-reported-by-willard-richards/1
Date: June 30, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Willard Richards. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal...

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 30 June 1843]. Featured version copied [ca. 30 June 1843] in JS, Journal, 1842–1844, bk. 2, pp. [275]–[289]; handwriting of . For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, 1842–1844.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 30 June 1843, JS delivered a discourse in , Illinois, defending the authority of the Nauvoo Municipal Court to issue writs of , a common law remedy that permitted a judge to review the legality of detentions. Earlier that month, officials initiated an attempt to have JS extradited to stand trial for allegedly committing treason during the 1838 conflict between the Latter-day Saints and their antagonists in Missouri. On 17 June 1843, governor issued a warrant for JS’s arrest, which Constable of , Illinois, served on JS near , Illinois, on 23 June. Wilson then transferred JS to the custody of the agent authorized to convey JS to Missouri, Sheriff of , Missouri, who accompanied him to make the arrest. With the aid of local attorneys in Dixon, JS delayed the extradition by obtaining a writ of habeas corpus. On 26 June, JS, his captors, his attorneys, and a few others departed Dixon. Their stated destination was , Illinois, in order to appear before an Illinois judge who would review the legality of the arrest. However, JS and his attorneys decided instead to appear before the Nauvoo Municipal Court.
On 27 June, members of the who had been apprised of the situation began intercepting the traveling party to ensure that would not succeed in taking JS to without due process. At JS’s direction, and with the support of his attorneys—but over Reynolds’s protests—the group changed course for . Just after eleven on the morning of 30 June, the party, consisting of approximately forty people in carriages and on horses, arrived in Nauvoo, where they were greeted by a large assembly of Latter-day Saints. JS pronounced a blessing on the crowd and announced that he would address them that afternoon. He subsequently petitioned the Nauvoo Municipal Court for a writ of habeas corpus, which was granted, and a hearing was scheduled for the next day. The writ was served on Reynolds, who protested that the municipal court lacked jurisdiction in the case. The Missouri sheriff nevertheless inscribed a “return” notation on the writ, explaining the legal basis for his detention of JS; the notation transferred custody of JS to the municipal court.
The discourse JS delivered on the evening of 30 June responded in part to ’s protestations but also to the ’s antagonists in who had previously criticized the Municipal Court’s habeas corpus powers. Illinois law authorized the state’s supreme court and circuit courts to issue the writ to any person “detained for any criminal or supposed criminal matter”—that is, for alleged violations of state laws. In the 1830s, the state legislature permitted only two Illinois cities, and , to operate municipal courts. Judges in both of these courts were authorized to issue writs of habeas corpus and to perform the same judicial duties as judges in the state’s circuit courts. The state legislature in 1840 similarly granted a city charter with authority to operate a municipal court, but the Nauvoo court was permitted only “to grant writs of habeas corpus in all cases arising under the ordinances of the City Council.” In other words, while Chicago’s and Alton’s municipal courts had explicit authorization to function as circuit courts, with habeas corpus powers to review detentions for alleged violations of state laws, Nauvoo’s habeas corpus authority was seemingly restricted so that the court could examine arrests only for alleged violations of local city ordinances.
However, the charter authorized the city council to pass any ordinance that was “not repugnant to the Constitution of the , or of this , as they may deem necessary for the peace, benefit, good order, regulation, convenience, and cleanliness” of the city. Under this provision, in July 1842 the city council passed an ordinance that expanded the municipal court’s powers so that the court could review arrests for alleged violations of state laws. When officers attempted to arrest JS on 8 August 1842 as an accessory to the shooting of former governor , the city council passed another ordinance that authorized the court “to examine into the Origin, validity, & legality” of any warrant on a writ of habeas corpus. Even if the warrant were properly issued, under this ordinance the court was authorized to “fully hear the merits of the case” and to give the prisoner “a fair & impartial trial,” upon which the court would render its decision on the petitioner’s guilt or innocence. In November 1842 the city council passed an ordinance that took as its base text the 1827 Illinois habeas corpus statute, which laid out the procedures that state courts should follow in habeas corpus proceedings. Nauvoo’s ordinance retained most of the language of the 1827 act. However, it eliminated provisions in that statute that conflicted with the city’s ordinances.
The charter’s habeas corpus provision and the 1842 ordinances drew criticism from JS’s opponents in . The Warsaw Signal, edited by , argued that the Nauvoo charter gave the municipal court habeas corpus power only in cases “of arrest under the Municipal Laws” and not in cases involving alleged violations of state laws. Discussing the 1842 extradition attempt, Sharp argued that “the guilt or innocence of the accused must be determined by the Courts of the State from whence the requisition issued; and any court of law, which institutes any inquiry of this nature, oversteps the boundaries of its jurisdiction, and openly puts at defiance the laws of the land.” During the winter 1842–1843 session of the state legislature, lawmakers who were antagonistic toward the church made unsuccessful efforts to repeal the Nauvoo charter or amend the charter’s habeas corpus provision.
In JS’s 30 June 1843 discourse, he addressed these criticisms and ’s objections. Church members began gathering at the adjacent to the partially completed at four o’clock in the afternoon. When JS arrived around five o’clock that evening, “about seven or eight thousand” people were waiting for him. In the discourse, JS discussed his arrest and, according to his scribe , “plainly prov[ed] that the municipal court had more power than the Circuit courts inasmuch as the latter’s power was limited while that of the former was unlimited.” Using the preaching technique of call and response, JS asked ’s citizens if they would be willing to fight to defend the city’s charter, to which the Saints gave a resounding response in the affirmative. JS enjoined church members to respect the rights of his captors, and Joseph H. Reynolds. Clayton also indicated that while JS “had restrained the saints from using violence in self defense” in the past, “from henceforth he restrained them no more.” , a Whig candidate for Congress and one of JS’s attorneys, was also introduced to the Saints, perhaps by JS, and spoke briefly, after which JS made some closing remarks.
JS’s scribe took notes of the discourse, possibly on loose paper, which he subsequently copied into JS’s journal. The rough nature of Richards’s account suggests that he was attempting to capture JS’s words as he heard them and that the version he copied into the journal was only minimally polished and refined. was also present and wrote an account of the discourse. His account is more polished in nature, suggesting that he took notes, which he then expanded from memory. Although Woodruff called his account a “synopsis,” his inscription is more than a summary of the discourse. Rather, it seems that Woodruff sought to reconstruct JS’s language verbatim, including his colloquialisms. Woodruff also apparently signaled gaps in his reporting with “&c” notations, standing for etcetera. Both the Richards and Woodruff accounts are featured here. Annotation that appears in Richards’s version of the minutes is not repeated in corresponding locations in Woodruff’s version.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

By how do you do.— I meet you with a heart full of gratitude to almighty god. I am well. hearty. strong as a giant.— while I was on the road I pulled up the strongest man. then they got 2 men & they could not pull me up. I have pulled mentalley till I have pulld here.—
There has been a great excitemnt in the country.— I have been cool & dispassionate through all. thank god I am now a prisoner in the hands of the Municipal [p. [275]]

court. & not of a Missourian
It was not so much my object to tell my afflictions &c as to speak of the . so that the minds of all may be corrected & know & publish that we have all power.— there is a secret. the has all power that the courts have. given by the same authority the Legislature . . . I want you to hear o Israel this day. if this power is not sufficient we will claim higher power. the constitution of the & the .— I have dragged him here by our [p. [276]]

hand. & will do it again but I Swear I will never deal so mildly again.
Be cool be deliberate.— be wise, and when you pull do it with sweepstakes.— my lot has alwasy always been cast among the warmest kind of people
The time has come when the viel [veil] is torn off from this . & let us mingle with the people of I. should have been torn from with the expense of life & blood if I had asked
I brought them prisoners. and committed them as prisoners not of chains but of kindness to her from whom I was torn [p. [277]]

There no doubt I shall be discharged. by the court the writs are good for nothing. without form & void.— before I will be dragged again away among my enemies. for trial I will spill the last drop of blood in my veins. see all my enemies to hell.— shall we bear it any longer— & one Universal NO. ran through all the vast assembly like one vast peal of thunder
I wish the lawyer who says we have no powers in may be choked [p. [278]]

to death with his own words dont employ Lawyers for their knowledge for I know more than you all.
Go ye into all the world preach the gospel. & he that believeth in our charterd right may come here & be saved. & he does not shall remain in ignorance.
one spindle shanked circuit Judge— & several fat men—
I have converted to the truth of .
I got here by law writ that Just as it should be.
in the midst of all your [p. [279]]

indignation. use not the hand of violince. for I have pledgd my honor.— will you all support my honor. YES. universal, by the audinc [audience]. I have proof of your attachment.
when oppression arises again I have learned. we need not suffer as we have. we can call others to our aid. Shall the prophecy of of our enemies. “we will establish our religin by the sword” be true? No.
If the Missouin Missourians oppress us more I this day turn the key by authority of the . [p. [280]]

turn the Key unlock the door & restrain you not rise up and defend yourselves—
always act upon the defence but if your enemies oppiress you the 2d & 3. time. let it come. & roar like thunder. & you shall stand forth. clear before the tribunal if any citizens of deny our right— let them go to hell and be damnd.— I give up my chartered right at the sword and bayonets.
Legislatur like the. boy daddy Daddy I have sold my Jackknife got cheated. & want to get it back again. [p. [281]]

what can mobocrats do in the midst of Kirkpatrickites.— no better. than a hunter being in a bears claw. What could we do with them. dung our Garden with them. we dont want any excitement. but after we have done all.— rise up break off the hellish yoke.— like Washington. day before I was taken I rode through & I said to my . I said good people here I was their prisoner next day .—— said By God we have got the prophet. now.
I am prisnr prisoner to a higher court than circuit court,
defend yoursefs yourselves— says a law in [p. [282]]

our Charter. powers.— same charter says. Municipal court. has power to enact all laws—— &c dangerous power. because it will protect, the innocent, & put down Mobocrats,— constitution of says “ shall not be denied.” Deny me the right of H. Corpus & I will. fight with guns sword cannon behind & thunder till I am used up. like the Killkeny [Kilkenny] Cats. we have more power because we have power to go behind the writ. & try the merits of the case. [p. [283]]

I ask in the name of J. Crist Jesus Christ and all that is sacred that I may have your lives & all to carry out the freedom which is chated [chartered] to us.— will you all help me all hands were up.—
shall be persecutd for the name’s sake—
when at . refused an intevew [interview] with a lawyer. turned. out door threatnd life, old gray headed man— rid his in rid his . came with .— & I had Lawyrs &c. enough—— writ for damge damages— assut [assault] & Battery.—
Wasp got up to go [p. [284]]

to ottawa 32. miles . thut [thrust] out all but . — sent. Mr [James] Campbell— to my rescue— & came & slept by me.
Morning certain men wanted to see Mr Smith. they would not let me an old man come to talk. Missourian, interupted. stand off you puke. Mr Smith we have a committee in .— a court from whence there is no appeal.—
my liberties began from that hour they lost their pistols.—— came came direct to .—
when they began to suspect we wer coming they remonstratd Bro Grover came. [p. [285]]

[pages [286]–[287] blank] [p. [286]]

[p. [287]]

Hosanna. Ditto. Do. to Almighty God who hath delivered us thus from out of the 7 troubles. 6.25 p.m.—
(. was introduced as a body of people. the greatest dupes that ever were.— or he is not as big a rouge [rogue] as he is supposed to be.— 1/4 to 7)
Joseph. I told I would not discuss the subject of religin with you. I understand the gospel. & you do not. you undestad [understand] Law I do not [p. [288]]

if the Legislatur have granted . the right of &c— it is no more than they ought to have done.— or more than our fathers fought for.
I swear in the name of Almighty God. with uplifted hand the Legislatur shall never take away our rights I’ll spill my hearts blood first.— [p. [289]]