Minutes and Discourse, 29 December 1843

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-29-december-1843/1
Date: December 29, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Willard Richards

Nauvoo City Council, Minutes, and JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL], 29 Dec. 1843; Nauvoo City Council Rough Minute Book, Nov. 1842–Jan. 1844, pp. 30–32; handwriting of ; Nauvoo, IL, Records, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Nauvoo City Council Rough Minute Book, Feb.–Dec. 1841.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

At a special session of the , Illinois, city council on 29 December 1843, JS participated in the swearing in of the city’s new full-time police force and counseled them on their duties. Nearly three weeks earlier, on 12 December, and had delivered two petitions to the city council that called for the creation of a full-time police force to serve as “a more sure and certain order of guarding the peace and safety of the citizens of Nauvoo” following the kidnappings of and his father, . The city council granted the petition and passed an ordinance authorizing JS to create a police force of forty men charged with defending Nauvoo’s citizens, enforcing city ordinances, and preventing theft.
By 29 December, JS selected the forty men to serve on ’s police force. Many of the men he selected had significant military experience in the or state militias. Like other early nineteenth-century police forces, Nauvoo’s force adopted a military-like command structure, which was presided over by as captain and , , and as lieutenants. Roundy was a longtime member of the city’s night watch, and Dunham, Rich, and Stout were particularly active in Nauvoo’s military, legal, and extralegal responses to the Avery kidnappings. Additionally, before delivering the petitions to the city council, Stout and Dunham had participated in public meetings on 11 December calling for the creation of a police force.
The city council met at four o’clock in the afternoon on 29 December, and the forty policemen took their oath of office before the council. Alderman , mayor JS, and city councilor then addressed the council regarding the duties and importance of the newly formed police force. Along with charging them to prevent thefts and enforce city ordinances, JS counseled the police to leave Missourians and opponents of the alone and rely on legal means to defend the city, echoing rhetoric he began employing ten days earlier. JS also addressed internal threats, stating that he feared “a Brutus,” or false friend, more than his enemies abroad. After the speakers concluded, the council heard three petitions from city residents and then adjourned to its next regularly scheduled meeting on 13 January 1844.
However, the city council reconvened five days later in the first of several special meetings held in part to respond to the fallout from JS’s remarks and the police’s subsequent actions. After the police were sworn into office, rumors began to circulate in the city that the officers had taken a private oath to support and defend JS and oppose his enemies. Additionally, in describing JS’s remarks to others in , some of the police intimated or asserted that the Brutus mentioned by JS was either , his second counselor in the , or , the president of the , because of their opposition to plural marriage. Law and Marks confronted JS from 2 to 5 January 1844 in private meetings and in the special meetings of the city council, during which JS vigorously denied the reports. His journal thrice stated that there was “nothing at all” to the allegations.
, the city recorder, kept the minutes of the 29 December city council meeting in the city council’s rough minute book.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Special Session, Dec 29, 1843, 4 oclock P. M.
Names of members called, Prayer by minutes of last council read and approved,
& 40 policemen were sworn into office, to support the constitution of the & the State of and obey the ordinance of this and the Mayor according to the best of their ability,— by Counseller clerk of the Mayors Court.— Names of police called by
Alderman admonishd the police to do their duty.
The mayor . said that it was expected that a part would be on duty while othess rest,— that it might be expected that thieves had crept into the , that it would be an abominable thing to set a theif to catch a thief, & would look upon men in their situation, guilty of a mean or cowardly act with the utmost concempt,— to be called High policeman, men have strange Ears, transformed,— altogether different from what they were, we will be forbearing, until we are compelled to strike, then do it decently and in good order, & break the yoke so that it cannot be mended, the mob has been so repulsed they stand in fear, we will be at peace with all men so long as they will let us alone “shall be the Motto of the from this time forth, in relation to , Let them alone”— they stink in the nose of the Almighty, Let them alone.— has gone clear and that proves me clear of being accessory of shooting [p. 30]

our difficulties from the State of are hurled on us through the influence of our neighbors around us.— the has boasted of being a law abiding man. it is our best policy to acquaint the by affidavits &c so that when the onset comes he will be obliged to send the militia to our support. [blank] Let us keep cool, as a cucumber in a frosty morning, [blank] say nothing about . Soft words turn away wrath “in the heart of a fool,” therefore we will Poor pussey this generation. [blank] keep time,— have the ordinances in possession and study them, & ferret out all brothels and disorderly conduct, and if a transgressor resists cuff his ears,— if any one lifts a weapon presents a pistol &c take his life if needs be, to save your your own lives, Let no horse be taken away,— or any thing stolen.— Let alone, stay at home, if any man attempts to bribe you tell me, Let us have a reformation, [blank] the speculators are in this & wanting to sell revolving pistols, to us to fight the Mo Missourians and the Mo’ to fight us, I think my life more in danger from some little doe head of a fool in the than from all the volobulory volubility of enemies abroad, and if I can escape the the hand of an assassin I can live as might Caesar, have lived if he had not been for a Brutus— I have have had pretended friends who have betrayed me as I am informed. Then Blessed the police,— it may be said in time to come where is our if old policemen— if Let us have one of our policemen if you will magnify your office shall be the blessing that shall be conforrd on you in time to come.
Counseller , spoke,— of the importance of the Police office,
The mayor said that if any one offerd a bribe to a policeman the will pay that Policeman twice the amount offered for the information to be reported to the mayor.
Petition of to have Licenc to retail Spirits read & ordered to be laid on the table.
Petition of & others, for opening a part of the street called Mulholland St— as far east as the corporations line [p. 31]

& petition ordered to be granted
Petition of Reuben H Loomis for a Licence to Retail Spiritous Liqors read and, and ordered to be laid upon the table,
Council Adjourned to next regular Meeting [p. 32]