Discourse, 13 August 1843–A, as Reported by Martha Jane Knowlton Coray

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-13-august-1843-a-as-reported-by-martha-jane-knowlton-coray/1
Date: August 13, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Martha Jane Knowlton...

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 13 Aug. 1843]. Featured version copied [likely between 19 Oct. 1853 and 12 Apr. 1854] in Howard Coray and Martha Jane Knowlton Coray, Notebook, ca. 1853–ca. 1855, verso, pp. [30]–[35]; handwriting of Martha Jane Knowlton Coray; CHL.
The discourse is found in a small book measuring 5⅝ × 3⅝ × ⅜ inches (14 × 9 × 1 cm), with forty-six leaves. The pages are ruled with twenty blue horizontal lines, now faded. The volume is loosely sewn together with thread and lacks a cover. The book has sixty-three inscribed pages. paginated the first nineteen pages, although the first leaf, which presumably included pages 1 and 2, is now missing, as are the leaves containing pages 9 and 10 and pages 15 and 16. The numbered pages include inscriptions in black ink and graphite by Howard Coray and his wife, Martha Jane Knowlton Coray; some of the inscriptions are dated 1854 and 1855. Between August and October 1853, Howard Coray turned the book over and inscribed journal entries and financial notations on four leaves in the verso of the notebook, although it is likely that at least one leaf is missing. Beginning on the fifth extant leaf in the reverse of the notebook, Martha and Howard Coray transcribed copies of four accounts of discourses that JS delivered between 1840 and 1843, as well as a copy of Martha Coray’s patriarchal blessing.
The volume likely remained in the possession of the Coray family until at least July 1902. or his descendants apparently gave the book to Joseph F. Smith sometime prior to Smith’s death in 1918. By 1979 historians discovered the book filed among the Joseph F. Smith Papers in the Church Historical Department (now CHL).

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 13 Aug. 1843–A, as Reported by Willard Richards.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

sermon 3thd
on the death of
There is a thought more dreadful than that of total annihilation, That is the an thought that we shall never again meet with those we loved here on earth suppose I had some Idea of a resurection and Glory beyond the grave which God and angels had secured and yet had not any knowledge intelligence of any Law or any order by which it is to be obtained Well you lose a friend you come up in the resurection hoping to [see] him again but find yourself separated from them to all eternity and become [p. [30]]

aware of the fact that through ignorance of the principles of the resurection and reunion you will never behold that dear friend nor ever enjoy his society this thought I say of being disappointed in meeting my friend in the resurection is to me more dreadful than of ceasing to suffer by a cessation of being
Could I tell the fact as it is all that heard me would go home and never say one word more about God or Christ or religion untill they had received that assurance from Heaven which would set their souls at rest by placing all beyond a doubt
What consolation have we what power what reason to expect one thing more than another in eternity [p. [31]]

Hebrews 12 ch 22 v you have come to an innumerable company of angels to the general assembly and And for have were they brought thus far— I answer that they came to these personages to learn of the things of God and to hear revealed through them the order and glory of the kingdoms of God.
I would ask again Is there a word on record that was revealed by those angels and spirits if there is where is it to be found
Again I enquire what is the order and organization of the spirits of the just made perfect [p. [32]]

Let me tell you brethren That which is to be revealed which was kept hid from the foundation of the world will be revealed to sucklings and babes
Malachi 4th ch Behold the day cometh that shall burn as an oven and all the proud and they that do wickedly Shall be as stulbble and they that cometh shall burn them up although in the begining God created the Earth standing in the water and out of the water Still in the End it shall be burned and few men left— But before that God shall send unto them Elijah the prophet and he shall reveal unto them the covenants of the fathers with relation to the children and the covenants of the children in [p. [33]]

relation to the Fathers that they may have the priviledge of entering into the same in order to effect their mutual Salvation And I saw another angel ascending from the east having the Seal of the living God and he cried &c. saying Hurt not the Earth nor sea nor trees till we have the servants of our God in their foreheads—
Now I would ask who know the seal of the living God Behold the ignorance of the World
A measure of this sealing is to confirm upon their head in common with Elijah the doctrine of Election or the covenant with Abraham— which which when a Father & Mother [p. [34]]

of a family have entered into their children who have not transgressed are secured by the wherewith the Parents have been sealed— And this is the Oath of God unto our Father Abraham and this doctrine shall stand forever—
Mourners: I exhort you to do as your Father and husband would direct— be sealed by the by the servants of God— Eternal life is to know the only true God and his son Jesus without which there is no salvation [p. [35]]