Discourse, 7 October 1843, as Reported by Gustavus Hills

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-7-october-1843-as-reported-by-gustavus-hills/1
Date: October 7, 1843
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 8 October 1843]. Version published in “Minutes of a Special Conference,” Times and Seasons, 15 Sept. 1843, vol. 4, no. 21, 329–330. For more complete source information, see the source note for Letter to Isaac Galland, 22 Mar. 1839.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Minutes and Discourses, 6–9 Oct. 1843.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

President Joseph Smith addressed the conference, inviting an expression of any charges or complaints which the Conference had to make. He stated his dissatisfaction with elder as a counsellor, not having received any material benefit from his labors or counsels since their escape from . Several complaints were then brought forward in reference to his management in the Post Office; a supposed correspondence and connection with , with , and with the [p. 329]

Missourians, of a treacherous character: also his leaguing with dishonest persons in endeavoring to defraud the innocent.
President Joseph Smith related to the the detention of documents from , Esq., which were designed for the benefit of himself, (President Smith,) but was not handed over for some three or four weeks, greatly to his disadvantage. Also, an indirect testimony from , through the of , that said and others had given information, by letter, of President Smiths’ visit to , advising them to proceed to that place and arrest him there. He stated that in consequence of those, and other circumstances, and his unprofitableness to him as a counsellor, he did not wish to retain him in that station, unless those difficulties could be removed; but desired his salvation, and expressed his willingness that he should retain a place among the saints. [p. 330]