Discourse, 8 April 1843, as Reported by William Clayton

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-8-april-1843-as-reported-by-william-clayton/1
Date: April 8, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 8 Apr. 1843]. Featured version inscribed [8 Apr. 1843]; handwriting of ; three pages; JS Collection, CHL. Includes notation, docket, redaction, and archival marking.
Bifolium measuring 12¼ × 7¾ inches (31 × 20 cm) and ruled with thirty-six horizontal gray lines. At the top of the recto of the first leaf, wrote one line of text that is apparently unrelated to JS’s discourse. Clayton inscribed the discourse in graphite. On the verso of the second leaf, he added mathematical notations that appear unconnected with the discourse. The document was folded twice for filing. A corner of the bifolium was torn off and reattached with cellophane tape.
A title, “Josephs Sermen”, was inscribed at the top of the recto of the first leaf by , who served as JS’s scribe from December 1841 until JS’s death in June 1844 and served as church historian from December 1842 until his own death in March 1854. A docket was added by , who served as JS’s scribe from 1843 to 1844 and as clerk to the church historian and recorder from 1845 to 1865. At a later date, likely in the twentieth century, an archivist added the date of the discourse in the upper right corner of the recto of the first leaf. By 1973 the document had been included in the JS Collection at the Church Historical Department (now CHL). The title, docket, archival marking, and inclusion by 1973 in the JS Collection indicate continuous institutional custody.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 8 April 1843 in , Illinois, during a special of the held from 6 to 9 April, JS preached a discourse on the meaning of the beasts from John’s vision in the New Testament book of Revelation. As an apocalyptic text, the book of Revelation used symbols such as beasts to depict the cosmic struggle between God and the devil as it unfolded in heaven, earth, and hell. Lacking an explicit explanation of the symbolism of the beasts in John’s vision, many Christians turned to the vision of Daniel in the Old Testament, which likewise used beasts as symbols, since an angel explicitly explained to Daniel that the beasts represented corrupt kingdoms on the earth. Applying this key, Christian interpreters concluded that the beasts, especially those mentioned in Revelation 13, similarly represented corrupt earthly kingdoms under the dominion of the devil. These interpreters subsequently developed many theories to identify the symbolic beasts with specific historical kingdoms, powerful institutions, or influential people.
Although JS reportedly had a strong personal interest in the book of Revelation as a youth, he evidently did not address the interpretation of the beasts publicly during the early years of the church. In an explanatory document written in March 1832, he answered questions regarding the book of Revelation, including a query about “the four beasts spoken of by John” in Revelation 4. Instead of adopting the traditional interpretation that the beasts represented corrupt kingdoms, JS responded that they were actually “four individual beasts which were shewn to John to represent the glory of the classes of beings in their destined order or sphere of creation in the enjoyment of their eternal felicity.” However, this document was not published during JS’s lifetime. In 1839, the explicitly instructed missionaries to avoid speculating about the meaning of the beasts and other mysteries and instead to focus their public preaching on “the first principles of the gospel.”
By early 1843, however, debates about millennial prophecies in the book of Revelation were unavoidable, primarily due to the excitement surrounding the teachings of Baptist preacher , who had predicted that Christ would return to the earth in 1843 or 1844. The beasts of Revelation became a point of local controversy in March 1843 when the tried Latter-day Saint missionary for teaching false doctrine. According to JS’s summary of Brown’s ideas, Brown adapted the traditional understanding that the beasts represented kingdoms and applied it to the fourth and fifth chapters of Revelation, which describe four heavenly beasts worshipping before the throne of God. Rather than interpreting these beasts as corrupt earthly kingdoms, Brown claimed that they represented the “kingdoms of God on the earth” as constituted during the times of biblical figures such as Adam, Enoch, Abraham, and Jesus. After Brown “acknowledged” the false doctrine charge, the trial moved to unrelated allegations.
The issue of the beasts was again raised on 2 April 1843, when JS visited church members in , Illinois. Reading from the fifth chapter of Revelation, he reaffirmed his 1832 statement that the beasts mentioned were actual creatures, adding that they possibly came from another planet. He concluded, referring to ’s teachings, that “God never made use of the figure of a beast to represent the kingdom of heaven.” JS also engaged in spirited debate with unnamed “young ” whom he hoped “would let such things alone.” Later that day, “several came in & expressd fear that [he] had come in contact with the old scripture,” evidently challenging his position that the vision of Daniel should not be used to interpret John’s vision in Revelation. JS again defended his position when speaking later that evening.
JS revisited the subject of the beasts on 8 April 1843, the third day of the church’s special conference in , noting the recent “division of sentiment amongst the E[lde]rs” over the meaning of the beasts and expressing his desire to settle the debate. He then proceeded to refute ’s position and to articulate his own view of the matter. It was a windy morning, and JS was concerned that he would not be able to speak above the wind for an extended period of time. He stopped preaching at 11:25 a.m., when his “lungs faild” and “the wind blew briskly.”
was appointed clerk of the conference and recorded JS’s discourse. The unevenness of Clayton’s notes suggests that he was writing as he heard JS speak. Another of JS’s scribes, , likewise took uneven notes, which he later copied into JS’s journal, likely with minimal polishing, as was his typical practice. Church member also made an account, the polished nature of which suggests that he reconstructed JS’s words after the fact from notes or from memory or both. All three versions are featured here. Annotation that appears in Clayton’s version of the discourse is not repeated in corresponding locations in the other featured versions.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Have 3 requests— all who have faith exercise. that the Lord may be willing to came calm the wind.— Next. have your prayers strengthen my lungs— next I may have the H. G. [Holy Ghost] to enable me to declare such things that are true— subject that I seldom have touched upon since I commenced— subj— of great speculation as well among the & the divines— sub of beast in Rev. Reason why is in consequence of a division of sentiment amongst the Ers my object is to do away division the knowledge of this thing is not very essential in relation to beasts heads figures &c— if we get to much puffed up— knowledge is nec to do away cont— the k of being puffed up is not so great as the evil of contention if they were to climb to the top of Mt Pisgah the Lord would hear knowledge does away darkness suspense, doubt— for where k is there is no doubt &c, no pain so awful as the pain of suspense— this is the condemnation of the wicked— doubt anxiety causes wailing in k there is power— God has more power than all other beings because he has more k. he knows how to subject other beings Instruct you in relation to the beasts— has been the cause one of the wisest old heads we have among us has been called up before the on account of the beast— The old man preached about the beast &c & was hauled up— never thought it was right to called up a man for erring in doctrines— too much like methodism not Latter Dayism— Methodists has creed— kicked out— want the liberty of believing as I please— feels so good— Dont prove that a man is not a good man because he errs in doctrine— the H. C undertook to correct him— came to me. Rev 5.— four beasts & four & twenty Ers (8 verse) he had confounded all christendom by making out the the 4 beasts repd k kingdoms wise men could not do any thing with him— any thing to whip sectarian & put down — a club is better than none for a poor man to firht [fight] could not help laughing at the idea of God making use of the figure of a beast to represent the kingdoms of God on the earth— when he could have used a more noble figure what? make use of the figure of a meaner creature to rep a much glorious one— you mist it old man but the sec. did not know enough to detect him, [p. [1]]

When God made use of the figure of a beast to the prophets he did it to rep. that portion, who had degenerated— the k’s of the world. Daniel says when he saw bear— angel interpreted— had no allusion to the k. of God— all the figure of beast rep. the k of the world beastly & abominable charcters— they were murderous corrupt carniverous in their dispositions. Make mention of the prophets to qualify any declaration I am about to make— that the young may not choke me like hornets— dif between the prophets & the Rev of John— none of the things John saw had any allusion the days of Adam, Enock Abraham or Jesus— only as represented to John & clearly set forth— John saw that which was shortly to come to pass futurity read Rev c 1 v 1— declaration— those things that John saw in heaven had no allusion to any thing that had been on the earth because John saw what was to shortly come to pass— John saw beasts that had to do with things on the earth— but not in past ages The beast had to devour the inhabitants, The Rev. do not give us to understand any thing past in relation of the k of God— what John saw was in heaven— prophets on the earth— going to take exceptions to the translation— distinction prophets do not declare they saw beast but that they saw the image or figure of a beast. they did not see an actual bear or lion— should have been rendered image instead of beast in every instance— John saw the actual beast in heaven, to shew that that being did exist there. when p saw they were images types to represent & they received an interpretation. I set it forth by this broad dec— where God ever gives a vision of an image &c he always holds himself responsible to give a Rev. or interpretation. otherwise we are not responsible— dont be afraid of being damned for not knowing this where God has not given a Rev. read Rev 5— 11— particularly verse 13, John saw curious looking beasts in heaven— saw every creature that was in heaven &c— all the beast foul fish in heaven— actually their giving glory to God. I suppose John saw beings there that had been saved from 10000 times 10000 earths like this— strange beasts— might be seen them in heaven.— John learned that God glorified himself by saving all that his hands made— a man who would tell you that this could not be would tell you that the Revelation [p. [2]]

John heard the words they said. God could understand every languag they talked— the beasts were intelligent beings giving glory. Darling religion says that the beasts represent kingdoms very well on the same principle the 24 Er represent beast— said the argument was flat as a pan-cake— calculate to overthrow the technicalities of the world. Again— there is no Rev. to prove (& we never can comprehend) without Rev.) if we spiritualise no authority) Ye of Israel hearken to my voice and when ye are sent into the world to preach repent ye for the k. of h is at hand— never meddle with the beasts & subjects you do not understand. when you go to dont say any thing about the beast the Lord read Rev. c 13 verse 2— they say the beast that received the wound was nebuchadnezer— What John saw in relation to this beast they have used the term Devil for dragon— it was a beast that John saw in heaven— what was shortly to come to pass. the beast was an actual b to which power was to be given an intelligent being in heaven— to have power given— John saw it had been wounded— All the world wondered after the b and if the beast was the world how could the world wonder after the beast— nebucha & constantine not excepted— it must have been a been [beast] that the human beings wondered after. When God gives power to a beast to destroy all will wonder. read verse 4— the inhabitants declared who is able to make war & they worshiped the dragon— some say it means the k’s of the world dont mean the k of the saints— suppose it means the k’s of the world what propriety is there in saying who is able to make war with myself— If these interpretations are true the book contradicts itself in almost every verse— but they are not true.
There is a mistranslation— the original word means the devil instead of the dragon— verse 9 ch 12— That old serpent called the devil every thing that we have not a key word to we will take it as it reads. The beasts were beings in h that were to have power I give this as a key to the Ers— [p. [3]]

[page [4] blank] [p. [4]]