Discourse, 11 June 1843–B

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-11-june-1843-b/1
Date: June 11, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Levi Richards

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 11 June 1843]. Featured version copied [ca. 11 June 1843] in Levi Richards, Journal, 14 May–11 June 1843, p. [16]; handwriting of ; Levi Richards, Papers, CHL.
This discourse is contained in a small book, measuring 6¼ × 4 inches (16 × 10 cm), with eight leaves. All sixteen pages are inscribed in brown ink, with redactions in graphite.
The journal, along with other documents, was apparently kept by and passed down among his descendants. These papers were donated to the Church Historian’s Office (now CHL) sometime during the tenure of Andrew Jenson, who began working in the office in 1891 and served as assistant church historian from 1897 to 1941.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 11 June 1843, JS gave a brief discourse in , Illinois, recounting his 1820 vision of Deity. JS had preached that morning at the unfinished on the of the Saints to Nauvoo and on the importance of performing temple ceremonies. In the evening, JS spoke at another meeting, following . According to , who was present at the meeting, Adams preached “upon the book of Mormon” and “proved from the 24th, 28th & 29th of Isaiah that the everlasting covena[n]t” that had been “set up by Christ & the apostles had been broken.” JS continued Adams’s theme, rehearsing his memories of his foundational theophany, as he had on previous occasions. Consistent with the account JS dictated in 1838, he described his youthful confusion regarding the diversity of religious denominations and his youthful prayer to learn “which of all the sects were right.” JS related that in answer to his prayer, the Lord told him to join none of the existing churches. He also noted the opposition he had experienced after his call as a prophet. Richards subsequently wrote in his journal an account of the discourse, which is featured here.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

J. Smith bore testimony to the same— saying that when he was a youth he began to think about these things but could not find out which of all the sects were right— he went into the grove & enquired of the Lord which of all the sects were right— he received for answer that none of them were right, that they were all wrong, & that the Everlasting convenat was broken— he said he understood the fulness of the Gospel from beginning to end— & could Teach it & also the order of the in all its ramifications— Earth & hell had opposed him & tryed to destroy him but they had not done it— & they never would. [p. [16]]