Revised Minutes and Discourses, 23 April-circa 8 May 1843, Willard Richards Draft

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/revised-minutes-and-discourses-23-april-circa-8-may-1843-willard-richards-draft/1
Date: April 6, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Willard Richards with printed passages from previous drafts pasted in

Revised Minutes, and JS, Discourses, , Hancock Co., IL, [23 Apr.–ca. 8 May 1843]. Version drafted [3–ca. 8 May 1843]; handwriting of with printed passages from previous drafts pasted in; ten pages with one inserted slip; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL. Includes dockets.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Revised Minutes and Discourses, 23 Apr.–ca. 8 May 1843.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Special .—
Thursday Morning April 6th, 1843.
11 o’clock, A. M.
A special Conference of the was convened on the platform of the . There were . present. , ; , , , , & of the .— & a very large assembly of the & Saints. Elder announced that Pres’t Joseph Smith was detained on business, but would be present soon. He called upon the choir to sing an Hymn. Elder opened by prayer and another Hymn was then sung, and Elder read the 3d Chap. of the 2d epistle of Peter, and spoke upon the subject of the resurrection. At 10 minutes before 12 o’clock President Joseph Smith, Elder and Elder arrived.

At 12 oclock gave way for the business of the Confince [conference].
President Joseph Smith commenced, by saying. We all ought to be thankful for the privilege we enjoy this day of meeting so many of the saints.— & for the warmth and brightness of the heavens over our heads,— & it truly makes the countenances of this great multitude to look cheerely, & gladdens the hearts of all present.
He next stated the object of the meeting, which was first, to ascertain the standing of the first presidency, which he would do. by persenting himself before the conference for trial.
Second; to take into consideration. the expediency of sending out the twelve, or some portion of them, or somebody else amongst the of the church to obtain Stock to build the , for the time has come to build it.
third. the Elders will have the privilege of appeals from the different conferences, to this, if any such cases exist. These, said the, president are the principle items of business which I have at present to lay before you, This is not a General but an annual confernce. [p. 1]

[Verso of page 1 is a copy of Facsimile 2 from the Book of Abraham.]

It is necessary that this give importance to the .
A prejudice exists against building the , in favor of the Lord’s house and the Conference are required to give stress to the building of the Insertion in handwriting of Willard Richards written to the right of the pasted-in printed text.

HouseLocated in lower portion of Nauvoo (the flats) along bank of Mississippi River. JS revelation, dated 19 Jan. 1841, instructed Saints to build boardinghouse for travelers and immigrants. Construction of planned three-story building to be funded by fifty-dollar...
More Info
. This is the most important matter for the time being, for there is no place in this , where
men of wealth, & character, and influence, from abroad, can go to repose themselves, & it is necessary we should have such a place. The church must build it or abide the result of not fulfilling the commndment.
President, Joseph, then asked the confernce if they were satisfied with the , so far as he was concernd, as an individual, to preside over the whole church; or, would they have another? If I have done any thing that ought to injure my charactier, reputation, or standing; or have dishonored our religion by any means in the Sight of Men, or , or in the Sight of Men & women, I am sorry for it, & if you will forgive me, I will endeaver to do so no more. I do not know that I have done any thing of the kind, but if I have come forward & tell me of it, If any one has any objection to me. I want you to come boldly, & frankly, & tell of it, & if not ever after hold your peace.—
Motion was made & 2d. [seconded] that President Joseph Smith continue president of the whole church;—— after a few minuts silence, the motion was put By , when one vast sea of hands was presented, & the motion was carrid unanimously.—
Presidnt Joseph returned his thanks to the assembly for the manifestation of their confidenc, & said he would serve them according to the best ability God should give him.—
The first presidency being disposed of, President Joseph said he did not know any thing agant the if he did he would pent [present] them for trial. It is not right that all the burden of the , should rest [p. 2]

[Verso of page 2 includes unrelated text from a 10 April 1843 conference of elders; this text is not transcribed.]

on a few individuals, and we will now consider the propriety of sending the to collect means for the . There has been too great a Solicitude, in individuals, for the building of the to the exclusion of the .
The have had too great latitude to practice fraud, by reoeiving donations and never making report. The has suffered loss, and I am opposed to that system of collecting funds when any may receive monies.
I am opposed to any man’s handling the public funds of the church who is not duly authorizd.
I would advise that some means be devised for transacting business on a sure foundation. The Twelve are the most suitable persons to perform this business and I want the to devise some means to bind them as firm as the pillars of heaven if possible. The twelve were always honest. & it will do them no hurt to bind them.
It has been reported they receive wages, at $2,00 per day for their services. I have never heard this till recently. & I do not believe it. I know The twelve have never had any wages, at all They have fulfilled their duty, they have always gone where they were sent, and have labored with their hands for their support, when at [home] If we send them into the world to collect funds we want them to return there funds to this place, that they may be appropriated to the very purpose for which they were designd, I go in for binding up the Twelve, solid. putting them under bonds. and let this conferenc instituete an an order to this end. that the travelling expences of the agents shall not be borne out of the funds collected. for building these houses.— & let no man pay money or stock into the hands of the twelve except he transmit an account of the same immediately to the trustee in trust; and no man else but the twelve have authority to act as . [p. 3]

[Verso of page 3 is a copy of Facsimile 2 from the Book of Abraham.]

for the & .
I would suggest the propriety of your saying that no money should ever be sent by any man except it be some one whom you have appointed as agent, and stop every other man from receiving moneys. it has been customary for any to receive moneys for the when he is travelling, but this system of things opens a wide field for every kind of imposition, as any man can assume the name of a Mormon elder, and gather his pockets full of money, and go to . Many complaints have come to me of money being sent that I have never received. I will mention one case. He is a good man; his name is , from Akron, N. Y. This brother had been east on business for him. & there received $20 or $25— as a donation to the , which he put in ’s bag with his money, & forgot to take it out before he returned the bag two or 3 days after his return he called on his for the money belonging to the , but thought his brother had paid out too much of his money, & he would keep the church’s money to make good his own. I called to see about the mony; he treated me very politely but did not give me to undestand he ever ment to pay it. X
-[The brother who brought the money from the East stated to the , that he did not think it was because his was short of funds that he kept it, for he had mony enough. he had told him that he should not be out of funds again,— that his had $20 of the church funds, & some dried fruit for the president.]-
President Joseph resumed I give this as a sample of a thousand instances, We cannot give an account to satisfy the people on the church books, unless something is done, I propose that you send your money’s for the by the , some one, or all; or some agent of your own choosing, & if you send by others & the money is lost tis lost to yourselves. I cannot be responsible for it. Every thing that falls into my hand shall be appropriated to the very thing it was designd for
Next it is wrong for the church to make a bridge of my nose in appropriating church funds. The incorporation required of me securities, which were Lodged in the proper hands as the law directs, and I am responsible for all that comes into my hands. [p. 4]


Xhe said he did not know at the time, that there was any mony in the bag, that he had paid it out, & he had none now,— .

[Verso of inserted slip is part of a copy of Facsimile 2 from the Book of Abraham.]

[Verso of page 4 is a copy of Facsimile 2 from the Book of Abraham.]

Next the are bound to me in the sum of $2000 with good securities, If they appopiate any property. Where they ought not they are liable to me for it. and the is running to them, with funds, every day, & thus make a bridge over my nose, I am not responible for it . If you put it into the hands of the temple committee, I nor my clerk know nothing of it.
So long as you consider me worthy to hold this office, it is your duty to attend to the legal forms belonging to the business, & if not, put some other one in my place, My desire is that the confernce minutes may go forth in such form, as those abroad may learn the order of doing business,— & that the be appointed to this special mission, of collecting funds for the , so that all may know how to send their funds safe, or bring them themselves, & deliver them to the trutsee in trust, or my , who can always be found in my .— Who are the Temple Committee that they should receive the funds.? They are nobody.
When I went to the White House at and presented letters of introduction from Governor of , to , he looked at it very insignificantly & said “,— ,— Who’s ? is no-body.” I erred in spirit, I confess my mistake, & I now make my apology to all the world, & let it be recorded on earth & in heaven. that I am clear of the sin of being angry with for saying that “ is No-dody.” I have been sorry for it ever since.— All property ought to go through the hands of the trustee in trust,—
[p. 5]

[Verso of page 5 is a copy of Facsimile 2 from the Book of Abraham.]

There has been complaints against the for approprating funds more freely to the benefit of their own children. then to othrs who need assistance more they [than] they do, & the parties may have till saturday to pepare for trial.—
[4 lines blank]
It was then voted unanimously that the be appointed a committe to collect funds to build the , and that & receive moneys for the , with this proviso. that the twelve give bonds for the safe delivery of all funds coming into their hands, belonging to the & . to the trustee in trust, & that the payor also make immediate report to the trustee in trust of all moneys paid by him to the twelve; and that the instuctions of President Joseph Smith, to the be carried into execution.
[3 lines blank]
proposed. that the twelve sign diplicate recepts, for moneys recived, for the benefit of the parties concernd.—
Elder , objected & said he should never give receipt for cash except such as he put into his own pocket. for his own use, for it was calulatd [calculated] to make trouble hereafter.— and there better methods of transacting the business. & more safe for the parties concerned; that he wished this speculation to stop & would do all in his power to put it down.— to which the twelve responded amen.— asked if any one knew any thing aganst , any one of the twelve, any dishonesty.— if they did he wanted it exposed, he said he knew of one who was not dishonest, He also refered to muzzling the ox that treadeth out the corn, &c [p. 6]

[Verso of page 6 is a copy of Facsimile 2 from the Book of Abraham.]

President Joseph said I will answer . The Twelve need not spend all their time abroad they can spend the time belonging to the , for to collect funds,— & the remainder of the time they may labor for their support.— & they may call on the public to supply their wants.— It is no more for the twelve to go abroad & earn their living in this way then it is for others. The idea of not muzzling the ox is a good old quaker song, but we will make the ox tread at the corn first & then feed him. I am bold to declare that I have never taken the first farthing of funds for my own use, till I have first consulted the proper authorities. When there was no quorum of the twelve or for me to consult, I have asked the , who had no particular business with it, but I did it for the sake of peace -[ said it was so]- Let this stop all from collecting funds except the twelve. When a man is sent to preach the first principles of the gospel he should preach that and let the rest alone.
the choir sung a hymn. and Elder prayed. at 12 minutes before 2 o clock P.M. confrence adjred for one hour.— [8 lines blank] [p. 7]

[Verso of page 7 is a copy of Facsimile 2 from the Book of Abraham.]

3 o’clock, , Commenced by saying, that he had some communications to make to the on stealing & he would do it while waiting for Joseph .— And referred to the article in the last number of the “wasp.” . Said He. I have had an interview with a man who formerly belonged to the church, & he revealed to me that there is a band of men, and some who pretend to be strong in the faith of the Doctrine of the Latter Day Saints, but they are hypocrets & some who do not belong to the church. who are bound together by secret oaths, & obligations & penalties, to keep the secret. & they hold that it is right to steal from any one who does not belong to the church provided they consecrate 2/3 of it to the building of the , They are also making Bogus Money.
This man has become convinced of the error of his ways and has come away from them to escape their fury.
I wish to warn you all not to be duped by such men, for they are the Gadiantons of the last days
He then read from the wasp as repuplishd from the Times and Seasons. his own affidavit. & the proceedings of the authorities of the church generally, Dated Nov 26, 1841. The man who told me said this secret band refers to the Bible, Book of Doc & Cov— & Book of Mormon to substantiate their doctrine, but no such doctrines are taught there.
They say that it has been taught from this , they are the little foxes that spoil the vines, & the are the big foxes: & the big foxes wanted the little foxes to get out of the & spread abrod, so that the Big foxes might. have a chance, [p. 8]

[Verso of page 8 is a copy of Facsimile 2 from the Book of Abraham.]

which every body knows is false: . all these things are used to decoy the foolish & unwary.
James
I will mention two names David Holman & ,— They were living in my house, I went to them. and asked them if they were stealing for a livelihood? Holman confessed that he had stolen from the world but not from the brethren, I [told t]hem to get out of my house, David asked me to forgive him & he lifted his hands towards heaven & swore if I would forgive him he would never do so again.— Soon after he went to where he was found stealing salt,— as is currently reported, he then stole a skiff & , & come across the . Stole a barrel of flour that had just been landed from a steamer,— rowed down the to & sold the flour for $200 saying he had picked it up on the & it was likely a little damaged,— get his pay, & went his way.
would not promise to quit stealing but said he would go to . I tell you to day the man that steals shall not long after be brought to the Penitentiary. They will soon be brougt to condign punishment. I demand in the presence of God that you will exert your wit and your power to bring such characters to justice, if you do not the curse of God will rest upon you, such things would ruin any people. Should I catch a latter-day saint stealing, he is the last man to whom I would shew mercy.
[6 lines blank]
President Joseph Smith said I think it best to continue this subject, I want the to make honorable poclamation abroad. concerning what the feelings of the is Stealing has never been tolerated by them. . I despise a theif above ground. He would betray me if he could get the opprtunity. I would know that he would be a detriment to my cause. & if I were the biggest rouge in the world, he would steal my horse when I wanted to run away. [p. 9]

[Verso of page 9 is a copy of Facsimile 2 from the Book of Abraham.]

It has been said that some were afraid to disclose what they know of these secret combinations, consequently I issued this proclamation which you may read in the Wasp, No 48, which the the president read.) (Print entire If any man is afraid to disclose
what he knows about this gang of thieves let him come to me, & tell me the truth & I will procetet [protect] him from violence. ,— This thievery must be stopped,
Opportunity was then offered to the to bring forward their appeals from others .— but no case was presented.
President Joseph continued his remarks and said; it is necessary that I make a proclamation concerning ; and also in relation to the economy of the on that side of the .
[p. 10]

April 6, 1843
Conference Minutes