Remarks, 3 October 1843

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/remarks-3-october-1843/1
Date: October 3, 1843
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Remarks, [, Hancock Co., IL, 3 Oct. 1843]. Featured version published in Robert D. Foster, “Pleasure Party, and Dinner at ‘Nauvoo Mansion,’ October 3. 1843,” Nauvoo Neighbor, 4 Oct. 1843, vol. 1, no. 23, [3]. For more complete source information, see the source note for Notice, 26 Aug. 1843.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 3 October 1843, in , Illinois, JS addressed guests at a dinner party celebrating the opening of the as a hotel. Because the much larger was still under construction, the Saints built the mansion to house JS’s many visitors and guests with the “best Table accommodations in the city” and to make them “more comfortable than any other place on the Upper .” By April 1843, JS instructed to have the “put hands” on the mansion to “finish it right off.” JS and his family moved into the new residence around 31 August 1843.
Around one hundred couples attended the celebration. addressed the attendees on “the rise and progress of the city, the varied scenes through which the saints had to pass,” and “the persecutions and abuses the prophet had to undergo.” After Foster’s address, and delivered comments, followed by JS. In his address, JS thanked those present for the commendation he had received. Like Foster, he mentioned his past trials and expressed gratitude for the Saints in . Next, tendered her thanks to the guests, Taylor offered a benediction, and the party retired from the mansion with the “most perfect satisfaction, and good humour.”
recorded a detailed description of the gala, including JS’s remarks, which was published in the 4 October 1843 issue of the Nauvoo Neighbor. This is the only known extant account of the oral commentary JS gave on the occasion.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Gen. Smith then arose and in a very touching and suitable manner, tendered his thanks to the company, for the encomiums and honors conferred on him. He recited the many woes through which he had passed, the persecutions he had suffered and the love he had for the brethren and citizens of . He tendered his gratitude for the pleasing prospects that surrounded him, to the great giver of all good. He said he thought that his case was similar to that of old Job’s; that after he had suffered and drank the very dregs of affliction the Lord had remembered him in mercy and was about to bless him abundantly. [p. [3]]