Revised Minutes and Discourses, 23 April–circa 8 May 1843, James Sloan and John Taylor Draft

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/revised-minutes-and-discourses-23-april-circa-8-may-1843-james-sloan-and-john-taylor-draft/1
Date: April 6, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of James Sloan and John Taylor

Revised Minutes, and JS, Discourses, , Hancock Co., IL, [23 Apr.–ca. 8 May 1843]. Version drafted [23 Apr.–ca. 3 May 1843]; handwriting of and ; seven pages; unknown number of pages missing; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL. Includes dockets.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Revised Minutes and Discourses, 23 Apr.–ca. 8 May 1843.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Thursday Morning April 6th. 1843. 11 OClock A. M.
A Special of the was convened on the platform of the . announced that Presdt. Joseph Smith was detained on business, but would be present soon. He called upon the Choir to sing a Hymn. Elder . opened by prayer & another Hymn was then Sung. & Elder read the 3rd. Chap of the 2nd. epistle of Peter, & Spoke for some time upon the subject of the resurrection. At halfpast eleven oClock Prest Joseph Smith, Elder & Elder arrived. Prest Smith arose, & stated that the object of the conference was
First. to ascertain the standing of the . he said that he would present himself first, & then present his Councillors.
Second. to take into consideration the propriety of sending the , or some of them, amongst the of the Church, to obtain Stock for the , for the time has now arrived to build it. The Church must build it, or abide the result of not fulfilling the commandment. A prejudice exists against building the , & the conference are requird to give stress to the building of that . This is the most important matter for the time being, for there is no place in this where respectable Men can go to repose themselves.
Third. To give a chance to all the Elders who have been in any difficulty in the branches, to have a hearing. This Comprises the business. He next spoke upon the importance of building the . as being of more importance than the , stating that the Lord was able to take care of his own . He however stated that this was not a general Conference, but an Annual one.
The following questions were then put to the Conference;—
1st. . Are you satisfied with the first Presidency, so far as I am concerned, as an individual, to preside over the whole Church, or will you have another? If any one has any objection to me, I want you to come boldly, & frankly, & tell it.
nominated Prest. Joseph Smith to continue president of the whole Church, which was seconded by . & others called for the question, & the vote was unanimous.
The [p. 1]

The Presdt. then made some remarks, & thanked the Congregation, & said he would endeavor to serve them (the ,) to the best ability God should give him. He then brought s name up as a Councillor. It was nominated by Elder , & seconded by Elder , that be continued to hold his presidency. made some remarks, upon which asked what meant when he said upon one occasion, that was a good man &c., & added, you (addressing ) extolled very high, you called him a perfect Gentleman.
said he did not recollect it, he did not then know as much about as he learned afterwards. I say now he never offered any abuse in my House. had never been about my House but very little, I never saw any thing about the Man but what was respectable. He came to Robinsons, I was in debt to him, & consequently I boarded him. Call for the question, which was put, & the Vote was clear, that he retain his standing.
Presdt. J. Smith next called up Elder s name, (who was then absent by reason of sickness,) & it was then nominated by Elder , & seconded by Elder that Elder View Full Bio
retain his standing. The question was called for. & the Vote was clear, that he retain his standing.
Presdt. , said he wished to be tried. a clear Vote was given. The Patriarch then blessed the People, & asked the Lord to bless them also.
X Presdt. Joseph Smith said the next thing in Order was to take into consideration the propriety of sending as many of the abroad to raise means for the building of the , as were able to go. He continued & made remarks upon the propriety of, & necessity for it, & the manner in which they should proceed, also how those who gave them means should make a return thereof to the Trustee in Trust.
It was nominated by , & seconded by , (with amendment remarks by explanation,) that the twelve be appointed for this mission, & that an Article be prepared by [p. 2]

by tomorrow, setting forth their duties, & the nature of their mission. some very useful remarks were then made by President Smith on the subject of the ’s going abroad & other matters of interest
among other things, he told the Elders when they were sent to preach first principles that they should Preach that & let the rest alone.
Hymn Sung.— Intermission of 1 hour.—
During intermission P. made some remarks on thieving &c., referring to an article in the last No of the Wasp. He stated that there was a gang of thieves down the who are plundering on the Credit of the ; that he had an interview with a Man who has been convinced of the error of such conduct & had come here to escape them.
They say they have a right to steal from any man who is not a member of the Church, if they consecrate 2/3 of it. They are also making bogus money. They had some 3 or 4 amongst them who denied the faith, would talk, they ripped up their bowels & gave them to the Cat fish, & that was their Oath. I wish to warn you all not to be duped by such men, for they are the Gadianters of these days. Read an Affidavit made by him some time ago. Also, the Article at large. The Man said they referred to the Bible, Book of Covts & Book of Mormon. He stated that They were the “little Foxes that spoil the vine” & that all these things were used to decoy the [p. 3]

the foolish & unwary. I have said the curse of God will rest upon such. I will mention 2 names David Holbrook & . I went to them & asked them if they were robbing for a livelihood. Holbrook said they did, but not from the Brethren. would not acknowledge. I ordered them out of my house. David asked me to forgive him, & he lifted up his hands & swore he would never do it again. Soon after he was found stealing Salt, he then stole a Skiff & took his family down the , Stole a Barrel of Flour from Burtis & sold it at . would not promise to quit but said he would go to . I tell you to day the man that steals shall not long after be brought to the Penitentiary. They will soon be brought to condign punishment. I demand in the presence of God that you will exert your wit & your power to bring such Characters to justice. if you do not the Curse of God will rest upon you. such things would ruin a people. Should I catch a latter day saint Stealing, he is the last man to whom I would shew mercy.
Prest. Joseph Smith arose, & said, I think it best to continue this subject. I want all the to help to make it known abroad what the power of the is. such things never have been tolerated. I despise a thief above ground, because I would know that he would be a detriment to my cause, & would steal my Horse when I wanted to run away.
It has been said that some was afraid to disclose what they know of these secret Combinations, consequently I issued this proclamation (1) () If any man is afraid let him come to me, & I will protect him. . It is necessary to make a proclamation concerning . , In relation to the economy of the on that side of the . The of has granted a Writ in the same manner that did, & it now held in . I was told by the Attorney that the of had no jurisdiction after the decision of the supreme Court. appeals have been made to [p. 4]

but although he has no plausible excuse He is not willing to kill that Writ or to take it back. ( 3) serve them a trick that the devil never did. i e, come away & leave them come into & pay Taxes in & leave them like the devil wont. I dont care whether you come away 4, let a man as soon as he conveniently can, come over here. for we wont hurt you here We, are all green mountain Boys, Southerners, Northerners, Westerners, & every other kind of ers. In relation to , it has been supposed that I made a great bargain with a certain great man at . came to me the beginning of August last, a stranger, & put on a very long face, 5 he was about to lose $1400.00 of Property for $300.00 in Cash that he had money in which he expected in 2 or 3 days, that the Sale would take place The next day. & that he wanted to hire money 2 or 3 days. I thought of the subject over night, & he came the next morning for an answer. may be that he is an honest man; & if I turn him away I shall be guilty of the Sin of ingratitude; I therefore concluded to loan him $200.00 in good faith, sooner than be guilty of ingratitude; he gave his Note for it, & said, whenever you call on me you shall have the money. Soon after I was taken with a Writ, & asked him for the money; but he said I have not got it, but shall have it in a few days. 7 I propose deeding to you all the property which deeded to you, which is 20000 acres, you paid the notes & ought to have them they are in my hands, & I will give them up. I also propose deeding to you 1/2 my right, to all my land in the & all I ask is to give your influence to help to build up . I answered, I have not asked for your Property, I dont want it, & would not give a snap of my fingers for it, but I will receive the papers, & if I find it as you say I will use my influence to build the place, but I wont give you any thing for the land. I told him I wanted the $200.00, he went to make the papers, & he gave up the notes except a few. I then said to , if you go there with the Brethren I will give you the Property. I then let the same gentleman have some Cloth. he began to [p. 5]

soon after to say to the brethren what obligations I was under to him. I then wrote him a letter on the subject. I have since found that he is swindling, & that there is no prospect of getting any thing from him, he is owing about $1100.00. thought it my duty to publish his rascality, that the might do the same. He has got a writing to the effect that if he did as he said I would build the place & on no other terms. his name is . He took this plan to swindle me out of Money, Boards &c. . I want the congregation to know. David did so, & so did Joshua. my only weapon is my tongue. I was willing to receive a voluntary gift. but would not buy property in the . it was even stooping to receive it as a gift. In relation to the , it is best described by its name, it is & every wise & judicious Person, assoon as he can dispose of his effects, if he is not a halfbreed will come away. I wish we could swap away some half breeds & let them go over the . If there is any that are not good Citizens they will be growling tomorrow at my remarks. that is the Key word. 9 There is chance in that place for every abomination to be practised on the innocent, if they go . & I ask forgiveness of all who I advised to go there. The Men who have possession have the best Title. all the rest are furm swindling. ()— Dont want the Mormons should have to quarrel there. Presdt. J. Smith stated that the next business was to settle difficulties where Elders have had their taken away &c, or their membership, but whilst they were preparing, if there was any such cases, he would talk on other Subjects. He then said that the burthen has rested upon the Shoulders of a few. The have had too great latitude to practice fraud. by receiving donations & never making Report. The has suffered loss. & I am opposedto [p. 6]

5 & stated that he was in great distress, that he was a stanger in this place, & having understood that I was benevolent he had come to me for help. He said that
6 I then reflected upon the situation that I had frequently been placed in & that had often been a stranger, in a strange land, & whenever I had called for assistance I had obtained it; & it
7 He then said since I saw you, a project has entered my mind, which I think may be profitable both for you, & me.
8 And when he was going off with some boards he tried to get some of the hands to go & take a stove that belonged to me which was was standing near, telling them that there was no harm in it; he is a thief. I mention these things that the brethren may know it & not be any longer imposed upon, by him. I wish the to make this known, & to advise the brethren that they come away, & no more go there.— It is not a good location, is much better; & when men feel disposed to ride me for a horse I feel disposed to kick up and throw them off; & ride them.
8' whereby you may know that they are halfbreeds
11 Their property is also held on an uncertain tenure & I

[page [8] blank]