Revised Minutes and Discourses, 23 April-circa 8 May 1843, Second Printed Draft

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/revised-minutes-and-discourses-23-april-circa-8-may-1843-second-printed-draft/1
Date: May 8, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of Thomas Bullock

Revised Minutes, and JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, [23 Apr.–ca. 8 May 1843]. Three fragments typeset [ca. 3 May 1843]; printed text with later redactions in the handwriting of ; three pages; first fragment in Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL; second and third fragments in Historian’s Office, Joseph Smith History Draft Notes, CHL.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Revised Minutes and Discourses, 23 Apr.–ca. 8 May 1843.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

They say they have a right to steal from any man who is not a member of the , if they consecrate two-thirds of it. I have also been informed that they are making bogus money. They had three or four amongst them who denied their faith, and would talk, and they threatened to rip up their bowels and give them to the cat-fish, and that was their oath. I wish to warn you all not to be duped by such men, for they are the Gadianters of these days. He then read an affidavit made by him some time ago, also, the article at large. The man said they referred to the Bible, Book of Covenants, and Book of Mormon to support their doctrines, but no such doctrines are taught there. He stated that these were the little Foxes that spoil the vine, and that all these things were used to decoy the foolish and unwary.
Pres. Joseph Smith arose, and said, I think it best to continue this subject. I want all the to help to make it known abroad what the opinion of the is. Such things never have been tolerated, I despise a theif above ground, because I know that he would be a detriment to my cause, and would steal my horse when I wanted it, and run away. [p. [1]]

[verso of first fragment blank]

The of has granted a writ in the same manner that did, and it is now held in . I was told by the Attorney that the Gov. of had no jurisdiction after the decision of the supreme Court. Appeals have been made to , but although he has no plausible excuse, he is not willing to kill that writ or to take it back; I will, therefore advise you to serve them a trick that the devil never did, i e, come away and leave them—come into , pay taxes in , and let them take their own course. I dont care whether you come away or not. I do not wish to control you, but if you wish for my advise, I would say, let every man as soon as he conveniently can, come over here, for you can live in peace with us; we are all Green Mountain boys; Southerners, Northerners, Westerners, and every other kind of ers, and will treat you well.
In relation to , it has been supposed that I made a great bargain with a certain great man there. A person from them came to me in the beginning of August last, a stranger, and put on a very long face, and stated that he was in great distress; that he was a stranger in this place, and having understood that I was benevolent, he had come to me for help. He said that he was about to lose $1,400 of property for $300 in cash; that he had money in which he expected in two or three days; that the sale would take place the next day, and that he wanted to hire some money for two or three days. I thought of the subject over night, and he came the next morning for an answer. I then reflected upon the situation that I had frequently been placed in, and that I had often been a stranger in a strange land, and whenever I had called for assistance I had obtained it, and it may be that he is an honest man; and if I turn him away I shall be guilty of the sin of ingratitude. I therefore concluded to loan him $200, in good faith, sooner than be guilty of ingratitude. He gave me his note for the same, and said ‘whenever you call on me you shall have the money.’ Soon after, I was taken with a writ, and asked him for the money, but he answered, ‘I have not got it, but shall have it in a few days.’ He then said, ‘since I saw you, a project has entered my mind, which I think may be profitable both for you and me.’ ‘I propose deeding to you all the property which deeded to you, which is twenty thousand acres, you paid the notes and ought to have them, they are in my hands, and I will give them up.’ ‘I also propose deeding to you, one half of my right to all my land in the , and all I ask is, for you to give your influence to help to build up .’ I answered, ‘I have not asked for your property, I dont want it, and would not give a snap of my finger for it, but I will receive the papers, and if I find it as you say, I will use my influence to build up the place; but I wont give you any thing for the land. I told him I wanted the $200; he went to make the papers, and he gave up the notes except a few. I then said to , if you go there with the brethren, I will give you the property. I then let the same gentleman have some cloth. He began soon after to tell the brethren what obligations I was under to him. I then wrote him a letter on the subject, and I have since found that he is swindling, and that there is no prospect of getting any thing from him. He is owing about $1100. I thought it my duty to publish his rascality, that the might do the same in that territory, and prevent the brethren from being imposed upon. He has got a writing to the effect, that if he did as he said, I would build the place, and on no other terms. His name is . He took this plan to swindle me out of money, boards, &c. [p. [2]]

[verso of second fragment blank]

In relation to the , it is best described by its name, it is half-breed land, and every wise and judicious person, as soon as he can dispose of his effects, if he is not a half-breed, will come away. I wish we could exchange some half-breeds, and let them go over the . If there is any that are not good citizens, they will be finding fault tomorrow at my remarks, and that is the keyword whereby you may know them. There There is a chance in that place for every abomination to be practised on the innocent, if they go; and I ask forgiveness of all who I advised to go there. The men who have possession have the best title, all the rest are forms for swindling. I do not wish for the saints to have a quarrel there.
President J. Smith stated that the next business was to settle difficulties where have had their taken away, &c. or their membership, but whilst they were preparing, if there was any such case, he would talk on other subjects. He then said that the burthen has rested upon the shoulders of a few. [p. [3]]

[verso of third fragment blank]