Revised Minutes and Discourses, 23 April–circa 8 May 1843, Third Printed Draft

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/revised-minutes-and-discourses-23-april-circa-8-may-1843-third-printed-draft/1
Date: April 6, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of John Taylor

Revised Minutes, and JS, Discourses, , Hancock Co., IL, [23 Apr.–ca. 8 May 1843]. Fragment typeset and amended [3–ca. 8 May 1843]; printed text with emendations in the handwriting of ; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Revised Minutes and Discourses, 23 Apr.–ca. 8 May 1843.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

SPECIAL .
Thursday Morning, April 6, 1843
11 o’clock A. M.
A Special Conference of the , was convened on the platform of the . There were present, , : , , , , , , and , of the ; and a very large assembly of the and saints.
Elder announced that President Joseph Smith was detained on business, but would be present soon. He called upon the choir to sing an Hymn. Elder opened by prayer, and another Hymn was then sung, and Elder then read the 3d chapter of the 2d epistle of Peter, and spoke upon the subject of the resurrection. At ten minutes before 12 o’clock President Joseph Smith, Elder , and Elder arrived.
At 12 o’clock gave way for the business of the Conference.
President Joseph Smith commenced by saying, We all ought to be thankful for the privilege we enjoy this day, of meeting so many of the Saints, and for the warmth and brightness of the heavens over our heads,—and it truly makes the countenances of this great multitude to look cheerily, and gladdens the hearts of all present.
He next stated the object of the meeting, which was,
First, to ascertain the standing of the , which he should do by presenting himself before the conference for trial.
Second, to take into consideration the expediency of sending out the Twelve, or some of them, or somebody else, amongst the of the church to obtain stock to build the , for the time has come to build it.
Third, the elders will have the privilege of appeals from the different conferences, to this, if any such cases exist. These, said the president are the principle items of business which I have at present to lay before you. This is not a general, but an annual conference.
It is necessary that this conference give importance to the . A prejudice exists against building the , in favor of the , and the conference are required to give stress to the building of the . This is the most important matter for the time being, for there is no place in this , where men of wealth, and character, and influence, from abroad, can go to repose themselves and it is necessary we should have such a place. The church must build it or abide the result of not fulfilling the commandment.
President Joseph then asked the conference if they were satisfied with the First Presidency, so far as he was concerned, as an individual, to preside over the whole church; or would they have another? If I have done any thing that ought to injure my character, reputation, or standing; or have dishonored our religion by any means in the sight of men, or , or in the sight of men and women, I am sorry for it, and if you will forgive me, I will endeavor to do so no more. I do not know that I have done anything of the kind; but if I have, come forward and tell me of it. If any one has any objection to me, I want you to come boldly and frankly, and tell of it; and if not, ever after hold your peace.
Motion was made and seconded that President Joseph Smith continue president of the whole church. After a few minutes silence, the motion was put by , when one vast sea of hands was presented, and the motion was carried unanimously.
President Joseph returned his thanks to the assembly for the manifestation of their confidence and said he would serve them according to the best ability God should give him.
The first presidency being disposed of, President Joseph said he did not know any thing against the Twelve, if he did he would present them for trial. It is not right that all the burden of the , should rest on a few individuals; and we now consider the propriety of sending the Twelve to collect means for the . There has been too great a solicitude, in individuals, for the building of the to the exclusion of the . The have had too great latitude to practice fraud, by receiving donations and never making report. The church has suffered loss, and I am opposed to that system of collecting funds when any elder may receive moneys.
I am opposed to any man’s handling the public funds of the church who is not duly authorized.
I advise that some means be devised for transacting business on a sure foundation. The Twelve are the most suitable persons to perform this business; and I want the conference to devise some means to bind them as firm as the pillars of heaven, if possible. The Twelve were always honest, and it will do them no hurt to bind them.
It has been reported they receive wages at two dollars per day for their services. I have never heard this till recently, and I do not believe it. I know the Twelve have never had any wages at all. They have fulfilled their duty—they have always gone where they were sent, and have labored with their hands for their support, when at home. If we send them into the world to collect funds we want them to return those funds to to this place, that they may be appropriated to the very purpose for which they were designed. I go in for binding up the Twelve, solid, putting them under bonds, and let this conference institute an order to this end, and that the travelling expenses of the agents shall not be borne out of the funds collected for building these houses, and let no man pay money or stock into the hands of the Twelve except he transmit an account of the same immediately to the Trustee in Trust; and no man else but the Twelve have authority to act as agent for the and . [remainder of page missing] [p. [1]]

[verso of page [1] blank]