Discourse, 6 April 1843–A, as Reported by William Clayton

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-6-april-1843-a-as-reported-by-william-clayton/1
Date: April 6, 1843
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 6 Apr. 1843]. Version copied in Minutes and Discourses, 6–7 April 1843, pp. [2]–[3]; handwriting of ; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL. Includes redactions and dockets.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Minutes and Discourses, 6–7 Apr. 1843, as Reported by William Clayton.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

—Joseph
The burthen has rested upon the shoulders of a few. The have had too great latitude to practice fraud. by receiving donations and never making report, the has suffered loss. I am opposed to any man, if I can the conference devise sure means to bind them firmer than the pillars of heaven. The were always honest. I never knew that the 12 had any wages at all. They have gone when they were sent & have labored with their hands. If we send them into the world I want to bind, up the Twelve, solid— put them into bonds.
Let this — no man shall pay any money unto their hands only as he furnishes evidences that can be immediately forwarded to the Trustee in Trust so that when the agents return it can be compared with the records if they dont agree— let him be set down as guilty— The Twelve are sufficient to have the Agency. And stop every man for using the money they receive the money for the . This system opens a wide field for every kind of imposition. Any man can assume the name of a Mormon and gather his pockets full of money and go to . Many complaints come to me of money being sent which I never received. There is one man I want to expose to the con he is a good man.— — the two first letters. some person had appropriated $25,— had received money for his brother, put it together forgot to take the money out of the bag. he would not let him have it. had paid more for his expenses than he ought to do [p. [2]]

The money was never handed over. I was treated very politely. said he did not know at the time that there was any money in the bag, & he paid it out— he had none now. did not give me any understanding that he would pay me the money. his brother said he had money enough he said he should not be out of money again. consequently he has $20 and some dried fruit— I give this as an ensample of 1000 instances. We cannot give an account to satisfy the people or the church book unless something is done. I would suggest the propriety of your saying that no money should ever be sent by any man except it be some one whom you have appointed as . Yourselves are responsible if you put it into other hands than a duly authorised Agent. Every thing that falls into our hands shall be appropriated to the very thing it was designed for.
Next it is wrong for the church to make a bridge of my nose in appropriating their funds. The church demanded of me securities which are lodged as law directs. I am responsible for all that comes into my hands. Next the are bound in $2000. with good securities. If they appropriated any property where it ought not they are liable. The people run to the T. C. with the property every day and thus make a bridge over my nose, I am not responsible, If you put it into the hands of the T. C. I nor my know nothing of it The ought not to suffer boys to use the property as they see fit. Your duty to listen to my instructions. If you have confidence shew it, or put some other one in my place. Desire that a knowledge may go abroad from this con that the are appointed to goe on the mission to collect funds. and that minutes go abroad in such a form as those abroad may know how to send their funds safe or bring it themselves. [p. [3]]