Discourse, 24 March 1844–A, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-24-march-1844-a-as-reported-by-wilford-woodruff/1
Date: March 24, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of Wilford Woodruff

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 24 Mar. 1844]. Featured version inscribed [ca. 24 Mar. 1844] in Wilford Woodruff, Journal, vol. 5, 1 Jan. 1843–31 Dec. 1844, p. [214]; handwriting of ; Wilford Woodruff, Journals and Papers, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Discourse, 17 Jan. 1843, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 24 March 1844, JS delivered a discourse to in , Illinois, informing those gathered of a plot against his life and the lives of his family members. Nauvoo residents and had previously made JS aware of the conspiracy. According to later affidavits made by Eaton and Williams, they had attended a secret meeting with the conspirators on or around 15 March. Williams stated that had invited Williams and Eaton to the meeting with , , and brothers and , all of whom had increasingly strained relationships with JS. Williams also stated that Jackson told him that “he should not be surprised if in two weeks there should not be one of the Smith family left alive in Nauvoo.” Eaton recounted a discussion in the meeting about putting a stop to the “spiritual wife system” and reported hearing the fears and threats of the men present. He also stated that later on 15 March he heard Jackson say that “the Laws were ready to enter into a secret conspiracy tooth and nails.” Eaton told JS about the conspiracy on 23 March, perhaps the same day that Williams talked to JS about it.
In the Sunday meeting held on 24 March 1844, JS spoke from a stand in the unfinished . In his discourse, he explicitly identified , , , and the Law brothers as being involved in the conspiracy. JS relayed what he had been told about the plot to take the lives of his family members and threatened to expose what he knew about the conspirators.
recorded an account of JS’s discourse in his journal. and also recorded brief summaries of JS’s remarks. The Woodruff account is featured here.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

I have been informed by two gentleman that a conspiricy is got up in this place for the purpose of taking the life of Joseph Smith his family and all the Smith family, & the heads of the , one of the gentleman will give his namme to the public & the other wishes it to be hid for the present they will both testify to it on oath & make an affidavit upon it the names of the persons revealed at the head of the conspiracy are as follows: ( , , & ) And the lies that has hatched up as a foundation to work upon is, he says that I had mens heads cut off in & that I had a sword run through the hearts of the people that I wanted to kill & put out of the way. I wont sware out a warrent against them for I dont fear any of them they would not scare off an old setting hen. I intend to publish all the iniquity that I know of them If I am guilty I am ready to bear it. their is honor among enemies I am willing to do any thing for the good of the people, I will give the names of one of the gentleman who have divulged the plot His name is , he will sware to it he is a bold fellow. said a Smith should not be alive 2 weeks not over two months any how; As concerning the Character of these men I will say nothing about it now, but if I hear any thing more from them on this subject I will tell what I know about them) [p. [214]]