Discourse, 26 May 1844

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-26-may-1844/1
Date: May 26, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of Leo Hawkins with insertions by Thomas Bullock and Jonathan Grimshaw

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 26 May 1844; handwriting of with insertions by and Jonathan Grimshaw; dockets in handwriting of Robert L. Campbell and Jonathan Grimshaw; nine pages; JS Collection, CHL.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

[No historical introduction available for this document.]

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

May 26. 1844. 10 A.M.
J. Smith read 11th Ch 2nd Corinthians. My object is to let you know that I am right here on the spot where I intend to stay. I, like Paul have been in perils— and oftener than any one in this generation— as Paul boasted— I have suffered more than Paul did— I should be like a fish out of water if I were out of persecution; perhaps my brethren think it requires all this to keep me humble— the Lord has constituted me so curiously that I glory in persecution;— I am not near so humble as if I was not persecuted. If oppression will make a wise man mad, much more a fool.— If they want a beardless boy to whip all the world, I will get on the top of a mountain and crow like a rooster; I shall always beat them— when facts are proved, truth and innocence will prevail at last. My enemies are no philosophers; they think that when they have my spoke under, they will keep me down— but for the fools, I will hold on, and fly over them. God is in the still small voice— in all these affidavits, indictments it is all of the devil— all corruption. Come on ye prosecutors, ye false swearers, all hell boil over, ye burning mountains roll down your lava, for I will come out on the top at last. I have more to boast of than ever any man had [p. [1]]

[text from an unrelated document not transcribed]

I am the only man that ever has been able to keep a whole together since the days of Adam— a large majority of the whole have stood by me:— neither Paul, John, Peter nor Jesus ever did it. I boast that no man ever did such a work as me— the followers of Jesus ran away from him, the Latter Day Saints never ran away from me yet. You know my daily walk and conversation. I am in the bosom of a virtuous and good people. How I do love to hear the wolves howl: when they can get rid of me, the devil will also go. For the last three years I have a record of all my acts and proceedings for I have kept several good faithful and efficient Clerks in constant employ, they have accompanied me every where & carefully kept my history, and they have written down what I have done, where I have been & what I have said. therefore my enemies cannot charge me with any day time or place but what I have written testimony, to prove my actions, and my enemies— cannot prove any thing against me. They have got wonderful things in the Land of Ham. I think the grand Jury have strained at a gnat and swallowed the camel. A man named says I made an affidavit against him &c says I arrested him. I never arrested in my life. He says I made an affidavit against him. I never made an affidavit against him in my life. I will prove it in Court. I will tell you how it was: last winter I got ready with my children to go to the , to kill hogs. was going to drive. An Englishman came in and [p. [2]]

[text from an unrelated document not transcribed]

wanted a private conversation with me. I told him I did not want any private conversations I demand one of you, such an one I am bound to obey any how. Said he I want a warrant against the man who stabbed ; he said it was a man who boarded at ’s. He said it was . It answered his description. I said I had no jurisdiction out of the . He said the man must be arrested, or else he will go away. I told him: “You must go to , or .” stepped up and said I am a policeman. I jumped into my carriage and away I went. When I came back, I met . He said you did wrong in arresting . I told him I did not do it. I went over and sat down, and related the circumstances. He turned round and said Mr Smith I have nothing against you, I am satisfied. He went and supped with me.— He declared in the presence of witnesses that he had nothing against me. I then said I will go over to , and testify what the Englishman told me. I told him not to make out that I believe he is the man, but that I believe he is innocent. I don’t want to swear that he is the man , , Hatfield and were present. [p. [3]]

[text from an unrelated document not transcribed]

made one out in due form, and as I sat down in a bustle the same as I do when one of the Clerks bring a deed for me to sign— read it. I said I can’t swear to that affidavit— I don’t believe it, tear up that paper. agreed to come before and make it up. I did not swear to it. After a while and others came in— they called me up to testify. I told it all, the same as I do here. rose up— and asked “do you believe now that I am the man who stabbed .” I replied [“]No sir, I do not now, nor ever did; the magistrate says I did not swear to it.” He considered, and made a public declaration that he was satisfied with me. went before the Grand Jury and swore that I did not swear to it: when goes and swears that I swore to it, and that he was in the room— when he was not in, wanted me to stay and have a conversation, asked for the writ and affidavit. He handed them to who read them, and then threw them into the fire. I said you ought not to have burned it, it was my paper. goes to the Grand Jury and swears he did not burn only one but I say he burnt both. [p. [4]]

[text from an unrelated document not transcribed]

This is a fair sample of the swearing that is going on against me. The last discharge was the 40th. now the 41st 42nd 43rd all through falsehood. Matters of fact are as profitable as the gospel, and which I can prove: you will then know who are liars, and who speak the truth. I want to retain your friendship on holy grounds— another indictment has been got up against me.— it appears a holy prophet has arisen up and he has testified against me— the reason is, he is so holy— the Lord knows I do not care how many churches are in the world— as many as believe me,— may— if the doctrine that I preach is true, the tree must be good— I have prophesied things that have come to pass, and can still. Inasmuch as there is a new church, this must be the old, and of course— we ought to be set down as orthodox— from henceforth let all the churches now no longer persecute orthodoxy— I never built upon any other man’s ground. I never told the old Catholic that he was a fallen true prophet God knows then the charges against me are false— I had not been married scarcely 5 min. and made one proclamation of the gospel before it was reported that I had 7 wives.— I mean to live and proclaim the truth as long as I can.— This new holy prophet () has gone to and swore that I had told him that I was guilty [p. 5]

[text from an unrelated document not transcribed]

of adultery,— this Spiritual wifeism— why a man dares not speak, or wink, for fear of being accused of this— testified before 40 Policemen, and the assembly room full of witnesses, that he testified under oath, that he never had heard, or seen, or knew any thing immoral or criminal against me. He testified under oath that he was my friend, and not the Brutus There was a cogitation who was the Brutus.— I had not prophesied against . He swore, under oath, that he was satisfied, that he was ready to lay down his life for me; and now he swears that I have committed adultery— I wish the Grand Jury would tell me who they are— whether it will be a curse or blessing to me.— I am quite tired of the fools asking me.— A man asked me whether the commandment was given that a man may have seven wives;— and now the new prophet has charged me with Adultery. I never had any fuss with these men until that brought out the paper against adulterers and adulteresses— was invited into the Laws’ clique— and and the clique were dissatisfied with that document— and they rush away and leave the , and conspire to take away my life; and because I will not countenance such [p. [6]]

[verso of page [6] blank]

wickedness they proclaim that I have been a true prophet, but that I am now a fallen prophet. has committed murder, robbery, & perjury, and I can prove it by half a dozen witnesses got up, and said ‘By God he is innocent;’ and now swears that I am guilty— he threatened my life. There is another , not the prophet, who was cashiered for dishonesty and robbing the government. also swears that I told him I was guilty of adultery. Brother can swear to the contrary. I have been chained— I have rattled chains before— in a dungeon for the truth’s sake. I am innocent of all these charges, and you can bear witness of my innocence; for you know me yourselves. When I love the poor— I ask no favors of the rich— I can go to the cross, I can lay down my life, but don’t forsake me. I want the friendship of my brethren— let us teach the things of Jesus Christ— pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a downfall— be meek and lowly, upright and pure; render good for evil— if you bring on yourselves your own destruction, I will complain— It is not right for a man to bear down his neck to the oppressor always. Be humble, & patient in all circumstances of life. He shall then triumph more gloriously— What a thing it is for a man to be accused of commiting [p. [7]]

[verso of page [7] blank]

adultery and haveing seven wives, when I can only find one
I am the same man, and as innocent as I was 14 years ago, and I can prove them all perjurers. I labored with these apostates myself until I was out of all manner of patience, and then I sent my brother, whom they virtually kicked out of doors. I then sent Mr Backenstos when they declared that they were my enemies. I told Mr Backenstos that he might tell the Laws if they had any cause against me I would go before the and confess it to the world. He was summoned time and again, but he refused to come. and know that I speak the truth.— I cite you to Captain Dunham, Esquires , & bror Hatfield and others for the truth of what I have said. I have said this to let my friends know that I am right— As I grow older, my heart grows tenderer for you. I am at all times willing to give up every thing that is wrong for I wish this people to have a virtuous leader— I have set your minds at liberty by letting you know the things of Christ Jesus— when I shrink not from your defence, will you throw me away for a new man who slanders you?— I love you for your reception of me— Have I asked you for your money?— [p. [8]]

[verso of page [8] blank]

No, you know better. I appeal to the poor. I say cursed be that man or woman who says that I have taken of your money unjustly. — will address you. I have nothing in my heart but good feelings. [22 lines blank] [p. 9]

[verso of page [9] blank]