D&C 82 — Doctrine and Covenants, 1844

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Critical text: Eric Denna's aligned-edition tables (D&C Critical Text), rendered 'Doctrine and Covenants, 1844' column; editorial marks resolved per ruling 2026-07-24; line = 2013 verse per the D-8 backfill (2026-08-09). The edition's own printed verse counters are removed — line numbers are 2013 verses only.
VERSIFICATION: 2013 — line numbers are the 2013 edition's verse numbers, verified against the table's own 2013 markers.

═══ TEXT ═══

[heading] Section 87 • Revelation, 26 April 1832 D&C 82 SECTION LXXXVII. Revelation given April, 1832, showing the order given to Enoch and the church in his day.

1
Verily I say unto you, my servants, that inasmuch as you have forgiven one another your trespasses, even so I the Lord forgive you;
2
nevertheless there are those among you who have sinned exceedingly; yea, even all of you have sinned, but verily I say unto you, beware from henceforth and refrain from sin lest sore judgments fall upon your heads:
3
for unto whom much is given much is required; and he who sins against the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation.
4
Ye call upon my name for revelations, and I give them unto you; and inasmuch as ye keep not my sayings which I give unto you, ye become transgressors, and justice and judgment is the penalty which is affixed unto my law:
5
therefore, what I say unto one I say unto all, watch for the adversary spreadeth his dominions and darkness reigneth;
6
and the anger of God kindleth against the inhabitants of the earth; and none doeth good, for all have gone out of the way.
7
And now verily I say unto you, I the Lord will not lay any sin to your charge: go your ways and sin no more: but unto that soul who sinneth shall the former sins return, saith the Lord your God.
8
And again, I say unto you, I give unto you a new commandment, that you may understand my will concerning you,
9
or, in other words, I give unto you directions how you may act before me, that it may turn to you for your salvation.
10
I the Lord am bound when ye do what I say, but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise.
11
Therefore, verily I say unto you, that it is expedient for my servant Alam Edward Partridge and Ahashdah Newel K. Whitney, Mahalaleel Sidney Gilbert and Pelagoram Sidney Rigdon, and my servant Gazelam JS, and Horah John Whitmer, and Olihah Oliver Cowdery, and Shalemanasseh William W. Phelps, and Mehemson Martin Harris, be bound together by a bond and covenant that cannot be broken by transgression except judgment shall immediately follow, in your several stewardships,
12
to manage the affairs of the poor, and all things pertaining to the bishopric both in the land of Zion, and in the land of Shinehah Kirtland,
13
for I have consecrated the land of Shinehah in mine own due time for the benefit of the saints of the Most High, and for a stake to Zion:
14
for Zion must increase in beauty, and in holiness: her borders must be enlarged; her stakes must be strengthened; yea, verily I say unto you, Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments:
15
therefore I give unto you this commandment, that ye bind yourselves by this covenant, and it shall be done according to the laws of the Lord.
16
Behold here is wisdom, also, in me, for your good.
17
And you are to be equal, or in other words, you are to have equal claims on the properties, for the benefit of managing the concerns of your stewardships, every man according to his wants and his needs, inasmuch as his wants are just;
18
and all this for the benefit of the church of the living God, that every man may improve upon his talent, that every man may gain other talents; yea, even an hundred fold, to be cast into the Lord’s storehouse, to become the common property of the whole church,
19
every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God
20
This order I have appointed to be an everlasting order unto you and unto your successors, inasmuch as you sin not:
21
and the soul that sins against this covenant, and hardeneth his heart against it, shall be dealt with accor ding to the laws of my church, and shall be delivered over to the buffetings of satan until the day of redemption.
22
And now verily I say unto you, and this is wisdom, make unto yourselves friends with the mammon of unrighteousness, and they will not destroy you.
23
Leave judgment alone with me, for it is mine and I will repay. Peace be with you; my blessings continue with you,
24
for even yet the kingdom is yours, and shall be forever if you fall not from your steadfastness; even so: Amen.
