Discourse, 6 April 1844, as Reported by William Clayton

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-6-april-1844-as-reported-by-william-clayton/1
Date: April 6, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 6 Apr. 1844]. Featured version inscribed [ca. 6 Apr. 1844] in William Clayton, Minutes, 6–8 Apr. 1844, p. [1]; handwriting of ; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Minutes and Discourses, 6–8 Apr. 1844, as Reported by William Clayton.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On the morning of 6 April 1844—the first day of the April held in , Illinois—JS briefly explained the business of the conference and defended his standing as a true prophet. Prior to the conference, tensions had been growing between JS and his opponents in Nauvoo. On 24 March, JS openly accused , , , , and of plotting to kill him and his family members. Around the same time, William Law, JS’s disaffected former counselor in the , told JS’s brother that he “was ready for an investigation before the Conference, and that there [he] would bring their abominations to light,” referring to the practice of plural marriage. Hyrum reportedly replied that “there would not be an investigation before [the] Conference, that they wanted peace.” At some point, Law apparently “sent Joseph and some of the , special word that he desired an investigation before the in General Conference, on the 6th of Ap’l.”
In addition to these challenges, JS was suffering from poor health. His condition included weakened lungs, which diminished his capacity to address a large outdoor audience. He had intended to preach a funeral sermon for his recently deceased friend on 5 April but was unable to do so.
Apostle , who kept JS’s journal, noted that “an immense number of the saints” attended the conference’s opening meeting, which was held in a east of the . Richards also observed that the weather on 6 April was “warm” with a “brisk air from the south,” and JS called it a “glorious day.” As the conference opened, JS limited himself to a few opening remarks. He explained that the conference would not discuss the difficulties in the church. Instead, he would instruct the Latter-day Saints in “principles of eternal truth.” JS also emphasized that, despite the accusations that he was a fallen prophet, he was still in good standing and close communion with God.
, , , and attempted to capture the proceedings of the April conference, but only Clayton and Woodruff included JS’s introductory remarks in their accounts. Clayton, who was JS’s private clerk, may have been assigned to record the minutes. Woodruff made notes from the conference in his journal. A polished version of Clayton’s account appeared in the 1 May 1844 issue of the Times and Seasons. The Clayton and Woodruff accounts, as well as the version published in the Times and Seasons, are featured here.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Joseph Smith arose to state to the congregation the business which would have to come before them. It had been expected that the little petty difficulties which had existed would be brought up, but it would not be the case. He intended to give them some instruction on the principles of eternal truth but would defer it untill the last in consequences of the weakness of his lungs. The would give instruction and then if necessary he would offer such corrections as might be necessary to fill the interstices. Those who want to sow the seeds of discord will be dissapointd for the wisdom of God will direct him in the seventh hour He feels in closer communion and better standing with God than ever before in his life— He was glad of the opportunity to appear in their midst. He thanked God for the glorious day that God had given us. He believes they will keep good order. [p. [1]]