Discourse, 7 April 1844, as Reported by Thomas Bullock

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-7-april-1844-as-reported-by-thomas-bullock/1
Date: April 7, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of Thomas Bullock

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 7 Apr. 1844]. Featured version inscribed [ca. 7 Apr. 1844] in Thomas Bullock, Minutes, 6–9 Apr. 1844, pp. 14–22; handwriting of ; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Minutes and Discourses, 6–8 Apr. 1844, as Reported by Thomas Bullock.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 7 April 1844, JS preached a funeral sermon in , Illinois, for member . An early member of the church, Follett had lived through the persecutions and served as a constable in , Illinois. On 27 February 1844, Follett was “stoning up a well” some fifteen feet underground when a rope lowering a tub of rocks snapped and Follett was struck by the falling objects. Although the crushing blow did not kill him instantly, Follett died from his injuries eleven days later, on 9 March, having “suffered much.” Follett’s family and friends requested that JS give Follett’s funeral sermon. JS had originally intended to deliver the sermon on 5 April but postponed it because of poor health. On 6 April, the first day of the church’s April , JS noted that his lungs were weak and consequently delayed addressing the Latter-day Saints at length until the following day.
The meetings on 7 April were held in a east of the partially constructed . Contemporary estimates of the number in attendance varied between ten thousand and twenty thousand. , JS’s counselor in the , observed that the turnout on 7 April exceeded the previous day’s attendance, and believed that it “was the largest congregation ever seen in .” Likewise, the Nauvoo Neighbor reported that “we do not remember that we ever saw so large an audience before, any where in the western country” and noted that “many spectators were present from , , , , and other towns of less noteriety.” After a morning session, the conference adjourned until two o’clock in the afternoon. JS’s sermon, which he delivered in the afternoon session, began at 3:15 and concluded at 5:30.
JS’s sermon was meant to console ’s family, but it was not a eulogy. Instead, JS addressed the subject of death broadly. Although he occasionally addressed Follett’s family and friends directly, he generalized his remarks to all in the audience who had lost family and friends. JS sought to comfort the survivors by teaching about the nature of God—specifically, that God had the form of a man and that God had once been a man and had incrementally advanced to godhood. JS also stated that men and women must similarly learn to become gods. He argued that God had organized the world from existing eternal elements rather than creating it ex nihilo. Likewise, JS declared that “intelligences”—or “the intelligent part” of the “mind of man”—are self-existent and have no beginning or end. Furthermore, God gave these intelligences laws to help them progress to become like him. JS then emphasized the great responsibility of the living to help save the dead and declared that all can be saved except those who commit the “unpardonable sin” of “blasphemy against the Holy Ghost.”
JS preached this sermon amid mounting tension between him and his enemies in , who alleged that JS was a fallen prophet. Two weeks before delivering his 7 April discourse, JS publicly accused , , , , and of plotting to kill him and his family members. Around the same time, William Law, JS’s disaffected former counselor in the , told JS’s brother that he “was ready for an investigation before the Conference, and that there [he] would bring their abominations to light”—apparently referring to the practice of plural marriage. Hyrum reportedly replied that “there would not be an investigation before [the] Conference, that they wanted peace.” At some point, Law apparently “sent Joseph and some of the Twelve, special word that he desired an investigation before the Church in General Conference, on the 6th of Ap’l.”
At the opening of the conference, however, JS explained that he would not discuss the difficulties in the church. Instead, he would instruct the Saints in “principles of eternal truth.” In addition, JS affirmed that “he was not a fallen prophet” and was “never in any nearer relationship to God than at the present time, & would show before the Conferen[ce] closed that God was with him.” During his 7 April discourse, JS referenced the threats against his life at several points, defended his calling as a true prophet, and warned his audience about the dire consequences of denying the Holy Ghost. JS closed his sermon by emphasizing that others did not understand him, that he loved all people, and that he would only be truly known on Judgment Day.
For church member , the 7 April discourse was convincing evidence of JS’s prophetic calling. Fielding affirmed that “Josephs Discourse on the Origin of Man, the Nature of God and the Resurrection was the most interesting Matter of this time and any one that could not see in him the Spirit of Inspiration of God must be dark, they might have known that he was not a fallen Prophet even if they thought he was fallen.” Fielding was not the only one to positively appraise JS’s 7 April discourse. called JS’s sermon “important edefying & interesting.” In a similar vein, , an resident who sympathized with the Latter-day Saints, observed that “Joseph Smith here and on this occasion in tones of truth and taste, elegantly portrayed the designs of heaven and carried the mind through time, declaring his good will, his love and sympathies for the world in its present educated character.” In contrast, remarked that “some of the most blasphemous doctrines have been taught by J. Smith & others” during the conference, referring, among other things, to teachings in JS’s 7 April discourse, such as the notion of a plurality of gods and the belief that God “wrought out his salvation in the flesh with fear and trembling, the same as we do.”
Six individuals—, , , , Samuel W. Richards, and —wrote accounts of JS’s 7 April discourse. Bullock, Clayton, and Willard Richards all recorded their accounts as JS spoke. Bullock specifically attended the conference as a reporter. Clayton, who was JS’s “private clerk,” and Willard Richards, who was JS’s “private se[c]retary & historian,” often acted as scribes for JS and may have been assigned to record the proceedings as well. Bullock took the most comprehensive notes of the three, and his minutes contain many abbreviations. Clayton’s account ends abruptly and fails to record the last part of JS’s discourse. Richards’s account is shorter and less detailed than Bullock’s and Clayton’s and is at times cryptic.
Although they were apparently not assigned to take notes at the April conference, , Samuel W. Richards, and wrote accounts of JS’s 7 April discourse in their respective personal records, probably derived from rough notes they took while JS spoke. Woodruff, for instance, recalled in 1877 that he recorded JS’s 7 April sermon “on the crown of his hat, standing in the congregation.” Certain factors suggest that the account in Woodruff’s journal was a fair copy or refined version of the notes he had taken during JS’s discourse. Particularly telling are the preface that he wrote before his account and the quality of his handwriting. Samuel W. Richards, who attended the April conference, copied a few unpolished notes from JS’s discourse into a notebook sometime after April 1845. Laub copied an incomplete account of the sermon into his journal sometime after 1 January 1845. While Laub’s account captures only part of JS’s discourse, the portion it does record is fairly detailed and contains unique phrases.
A polished account of JS’s 7 April discourse, which was an amalgamation of ’s and ’s notes, appeared in the 15 August 1844 issue of the Times and Seasons. Each of the seven accounts of JS’s discourse is featured here. All transliterations of Hebrew words in this document will provide two spellings: first, the spelling used by , JS’s Hebrew instructor in , Ohio, and second, a modern spelling of the word.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

The Prophet while I address you on the subject which in the fore part. of the was contemplated.— as the wind blows very hard it will be hardly possible for me to make you all hear it is of the greatest importance & the most solemn of any that could. occupy our attention. & that is the subject of the dead on the decease of our who was crushed to death in a well— & inasmuch as there are a great many in this congregation who live in this & who have lost friend I shall speak in general. & offer you my ideas so far as I have ability & so far as I shall be inspired. by the H S. [Holy Spirit] to dwell on this subject. I want your prayer, faith the instruction. of Almighty God to say things that are true & shall carry the testimony to your hearts & pray that he may strengthen my lungs— stay the winds— & let the prayers of the Saints to heaven appear— for the prayers of the righteous avail much & I verily believe that your prayers shall be heard before I enter in the investigation. fully of the subjt. that is lying before us I wish to make a few preliminaries in order that you may understand when I come to it [p. 14]

I do not calculate to please your ears with oratory with much learning but I calculate to edify you with simple truths from Heaven— I wish to go back to the beginning: of creation— it is necessary to know the mind decree & ordination. of the great Eloe Elōheem or Elohim beginning at the creation. & it is necessary. for us to have an understanding. of God in the beging. if we start right it is very easy for us to go right all the time but if we start wrong it is hard to get right there are very few who understand rightly the character of God— they do not comprehend any thing that is past or that which is to come & com: but little more than the brute beast if a man learns know nothing more than to eat, drink, sleep, & does not comprehend any of the designs of God the Beast can the same thing eats drinks sleeps— noes knows nothing more & how are we to do it by no other. way than the Inspiration of Almighty God I want to go back to the begin & so get you into a more lofty sphere than what the human being generally understands I want to ask this congregation: every man woman: & child to answer. the question. in their own heart what kind of a being is God I again. repeat. the questn. what kind of a being is God does any man or woman know have any of you seen, him heard him, communed with him, here is the questn. that will peradventure from this time henceforth occupy your attentn.— the Apostle: says this is Eternal life to know God & J. C Jesus Christ who he has sent— that is eternal. life if any man enquire what kind of a being is God if he will search deligently his own heart that unless he knows God he has no eternal life— my first object is to find out the character of the true God & if I should. be the man to comprehend: the God & I com: them to your heart let every man & woman henceforth shut their mouths & never say anything against. the man of God & If I do not do it I have no right to revelation. inspn. if all are pretension to God they will all be as bad off as I am they will all say I ought to be damned there is not a man or wom who would not breathe out an anathema on my head & some wod. feel authorized to take away my life— if any man is authd. to take away my life who say I am a false teacher so I shod. have the same right to all false teacher & where wod. be the end of the blood & there is no law in the heart of God that wod. allow any one to interfere with the rights of man every man has a right to be a false as well as a true prophet— if I shew verily that I have the truth of God & shew that [p. 15]

ninety nine of 100 are false prophets it wod. deluge the whole world with blood I want you all to know God to be familiar with him & if I can bring you to him all persecution. agst. me will cease & let you know that I am his servant for I speak as one having. authority. & not as a senr. open your ears & eyes all ye Ends of the Earth & hear & I am going to prove it to you with the Bible & I am going to tell you the desns. of God to the human race & why he interferes with the affairs of man God himself who sits enthroned in yonder Heavens is a man like unto one of yourselves who holds this world in its orbit & upholds all things by his power if you were to see him to day you wod. see him a man for Adam was an man like in fashion & image like unto him Adam walkd talked & communed. with him as one man talks & communes: with another. in order to speak for the consolation. of those who mourn for the loss of their friend it is necy. to understand the character. & being of God for I am going to tell you what sort of a being of God for he was God from the begin of all Eternity & if I do not refute it— truth is the touchstone they are the simple & first principles: of truth to know for a certainty the char. of God that we may converse with him same as a man & God himself the father of us all dwelt on a Earth same as J C himself did & I will shew it from the Bible— I wish I had the trump of an Arch Angel I cod. tell the story in such a manner that persecution: shod. cease for ever— Jesus: said. as the Father. hath power in himself even so hath the Son power to do what the Far. did that ansr. is obvious in a manner to lay down his body & take it up— J— did as my Far. laid down his body & take it up agn. if you dont believe it you dont believe the Bible the Scripture says & I defy all hell all learning. wisdom & records of hell together to refute it here then is Eternal life to know the only wise & true God you have got to learn how to be a God yourself & be a King & Priest to God same as all have done by going from a small capacity to another. from grace to grace until the resurrection. & sit in everlasting power as they who have gone before & God in the L D. last days while certain. indivdls individuals are proclaiming. his name is not trifling with us— how consoling to the mourner when they are called. to part with a wife mother father dear. relative to know that all Earthly tabernacles shall be dissolved that [p. 16]

they shall be heirs of God & joint. heirs of J. C. to inherit the same powers exaltation. until you ascend. the throne of Etl. power same as those who are gone before what J. did I do the things I saw my Far. do before worlds came rolled nto existence I saw my Far. work out his Kingdom with fear & trembling & I must do the same when I shall give my K to the Far. so that he obtains K rolling. upon K. so that J treads in his tracks as he had gone before it is plain beyond comprehension. & you thus learn the first principles of the Gospel when you climb a ladder you must begin at the bottom rung until you learn the last principle of the Gospel for it is a great thing to learn Salvation. beyond the grave & it is not all to be comprehended in this world I suppose I am not allowed. to go into investign. but what is contained. in the Bible & I think there is so many wise men who wod. put me to death for treason I shall turn commentator to day— I shall go to the first Hebrew word in the Bible the 1st. sentence: In the beginning— Berosheet— In by through & every thing else Roshed the head when the Inspd. man wrote it he did not put the 1st. pt. to it a man a Jew without. any authy. thought. it too bad to begin to talk about the head of any man— “The Head one of the Gods brought forth the Gods” is the true meaning. of the word— if you do not believe it you do not believe the learned man of God— no man can tell you more than I do thus the Head God brought. forth the Gods in the Head council— I want to bring it to English Oh ye lawyers ye doctors I want to let you know that the H G. [Holy Ghost] knows something as well as you do— the Head God called togr. the Gods & set in Grand Council &c when I say a lawyer I mean a lawyer of the Scripture I have done so hither to let the lawyers flutter & let every body laugh at them— some learned Doctor. might. take a notion. to say thus & so— & are not to be altered. & I am going to shew you an error I have an old book in the Latin Greek Hebrew & German & I have been reading. the German: I find it to be the most corect that I have found & it corespends the nearest to the revelations. that I have given the last 14 years it tells about Iachaboa means Jacob— in the English James— & you may talk about James thro all Eternity in the 21 verse of 4th. Matthew: where it gives the test. that it is to Jacob— & how can we escape the damnation. of hell witht. God reveal to us. Latin says that Iachobus. means Jacob— Hebrew says means Jacob— Greek says Jacob German says Jacob thank God I have got this book & I thank him more for the I have all the 4 Testaments come here ye learned men & read if you can [p. 17]

I shod. not have brot. up this wod only to shew that I am right when we begin to learn in this way we beg to learn the only true God & when we find to know how to come to him & he begins to unfold the heavens to us & tell us all about. it bef our prayers get to his ears now I ask all the learned men who hear me whether. the learned men who are preaching. Saln. say that God created the Heavens & the Earth out of nothing & the reason is that they are unlearned & I know more than all the world put togr. & if the H. G. in me comprehends: more than all the world I will associate with it— what does Boro mean it means to organize same as you wod. organize a Ship— God himself had materials to organize the world out of chaos which is Element & in which dwells all the glory— that nothing can destroy they never can have an ending they exist eternally— I have anor. to dwell on & it is impossible for me to say much but to touch upon them— for time will not permit me to say all— so I must come to the resurrection. of the dead— the soul the imm. immortal Spirit oh man says God created in the beging. the very idea lestens man in my idea— I dont believe the doctrine: hear it all ye Ends of the World for God has told me so I am going to tell of things more noble— we say that God himself is a self existing God, who told you so, how did it get it into your head who told you that man did not exist in like manner— how does it read in the Hebrew that God made man & put into it Adams Spirit & so became a living Spirit— the mind of man— the mind of man is as immortal as God himself— hence while I talk to these mourners— they are only separated from their bodies for a short period— their Spirits coexisted with God & now converse one another same as we do— does not this give your satisfaction. I want to reason more on the Spirit of Man for I am dwelling on the body of man on the subjt. of the dead— I take my ring from my finger & liken it unto the mind of man the immortal. Spirit because it has no beging. suppose you cut it into but as the Lord lives there wod. be an end all the fools & wise men from the beging of creation who say that man had begin— they must have an end & then the doctrine of annihilitn. annihilation wod. be true— but if I am right I mit. with boldness proclaim from the house top that God never had power to create the Sp of Man at all— God himself cod. not create himself intelligence is self existent it is a Sp from age to end & there is no creatn abt. it [p. 18]

the first principles of Man are self exist with God— that God himself finds himself in the midst of Spirits & bec he saw proper to institute laws for those who were in less intelligence that they mit. have one glory upon another in all that knowledge power & glory & so took in hand to save the world of Sp: you say honey is Sweet & so do I. I can also taste the Sp of Eternal life I know it is good & when I tell you— of these things that were given me by Inspiration of the H S. you are bound to receive it as sweet & I rejoice more & more— Mans relation to God I will open your eyes in rel to your dead all things which God of his infinite reason has seen fit to reveal to us in our mortal state in regard to our mortal bodies are revealed. to us as if we had no bodies & those revns. which will save our dead will save our bodies— & God reveals them to us in the view of no Eternal dissolution. of the body— hence the awful responsibility that rests upon us for our dead— for all the Spirits must either obey the Gospel or be d——d damned solemn thot. dreadful thot. is there nothing to be done for those who have gone before us witht. obeying the decrees of God wod. to God that I had 40 days & nights— to tell you all to let you know I am not a fallen prophet— what kind of characters are those who can be saved altho their bodies are decaying in the grave— the greatest responsibility that God has laid upon us to seek after our dead— the apostle says they without us cant be perfect— now I am speaking of them I say to you Paul, you cant be perfect witht. us.— those that are gone before & those who came after must be made perfect— & God has made it obligatory to man— God said he shall send Elijah &c I have a declaration to make as to the provision. which God made from before the foundation. of the world. what has J. sd. all sins & all blasphemies every transgression: that man may be guilty of there is a Saln. for him or in the world to come— every Sp in the Eternal: world can be ferreted out & saved unless he has committed. that Sin which cant be remitted. to him— that God has wrought. out saln. for all men unless they have comd. a certn. sin a friend who has got a friend in the world can save him unless he has comd. the unpardonable sin & so you can see how far you can be Savior [blank] there is no thing that a man can commit the unpardonable sin after the dissn of the body & there is a way possible for escape not partarly d——d— those that are witht. wisdom until they get exalted to wisdom [p. 19]

a sinner has his own mind & is in his own condemner the torment of the mind of man is as exquisite as a lake burning. with fire & brimstone— I know the Scriptures I understand them— no man can commit the unpardonable sin after the dissn. of the body but they must do it in this world— hence the Saln. of J. C was wrought out for all men to triumph over the devil— for he stood up for a Savior— J. contended. that there wod. be certn. souls that wod. be condemnd & the devil sd. he cod. save them all— as the grand council gave in for J. C. so the d l fell & all who put up their heads for him all sin shall be forgiven except the sin agt. the H. G. he has got to say that the Sun does not shine while he sees it he has got to deny J. C. when the heavens are open to him— & from that time they begin to be enemies like many of the apostates of The — when a man begins to be an enemy he hunts him— for he has the same Sp. that they had who crucified. the Lord of life— the same Sp. that Sin agt. the H. G. I advise all to be careful what you do— stay— do not give way— you may find that some one has laid a snare for you be cautious— await— when you find a Sp. wants bloodshed murder same is not of God but is of the devil out of the abundance of the heart man speaks— the man that tells you words of life is the man that can save you— I warn you agt all evil characters who sin agt. H. G. for there is no redemption. for them in this world nor in the world to come I can enter into the mysteries— I can enter largely into the eternal worlds— for J. sd. In my Fars. mansion there are many mansions &c there is one glory of the moon Sun & Stars &c we have the reason to have the greatest hope & consoln. for our dead— for we have aided them in the 1st. principles for we have seen them walk in the midst— & sink asleep in the arms of J. & hence is the glory of the Sun— you mourners have occasion. to rejoice for your has gone to wait until the resn. & your expectation. & hope are far above what man can conceive— for why God has revd. to us— & I am authd. to say by the authy. of the H. G. that you have no occasn. to fear for he is gone to the home of the just— dont mourn dont weep— I know it by the testimony of the H. G. that is within me— rejoice O Israel— your friends shall triumph gloriously— while their murderers shall welter for years—— I say for the benefit of strangers [p. 20]

I have a Bror. Friends who are gone to a world of Sp— they are absent for a moment.— they are in the Sp. then shall we hail our Mother. Fars. Friends & all no fear of mobs— &c but all an Eternity of felicity— Mothers you shall have your Children for they shall have it— for their debt is paid there is no damnation awaits them for they are in the Spirits— as the Child dies so shall it rise from the dead & be living in the burng. of God— it shall be the child as it was bef it died out of your arms children dwell & exercise power in the same form as they laid them down
the of Water witht. the Baptism of Fire & the H G. attending it are necy he must be born of Water & Sp in order to get into the K of God— in the German text bears me out same as the revn. which I have given for the 14 years— I have the test to put in their teeth that my test has been true all the time you will find it in the declaration of John the Baptist (reads from the German) John says I baptize you with Water but when J comes who has the power he shall administer the bap of F & the H. G. Great. God now where is all the Sect. sectarian world— & if this est testimony is true they are all d——d as clearly as any Anathama ever was— I know the text is true— I call upon all to say I— (shouts of I) — how are you going to save them with water— for John sd. his bapm. was nothing witht the bap of J. C. One God, Far., Jesus, hope of, our Calling, one baptism— all three bap make one I have the truth & I am at the defiance of the world to contradict I have preached Latin Hebrew Greek German & I have fulfilled all I am not so big a fool as many have taken me for— the Germans know that I read the German corect— hear it all ye Ends of the Earth— all ye Sinners Repent Repent turn to God for your religion. wont save you & ye will be dd but I do not say how along— but those who Sin agt. the H. G. cannot be forgiven in this world or in the world to come but they shall die the 2nd. death— but as they concoct scenes of bloodshed in this world so they shall rise to that resurn. which is as the lake of fire & brimstone— some shall rise to the everlasting burning of God & some shall rise to the dn. of their own filthiness— same as the lake of fire & brimstone— I have intended. my remarks to all— to all rich & poor bond & free great & small I have no enmity agst any man— I love you all— I am their best friend & if persons miss their mark it is their own fault— if I reprove a man [p. 21]

& he hate me he is a fool— for I love all men especially these my brethren & sisters— I rejoice in hearing the test of my aged friend— you never knew my heart no man knows my history— I can not do it I shall never undertake— if I had not experienced what I have I should not have known it myself— I never did harm any man since I have been born in the world— my voice is always for peace— I cannot lie down until my work is finished— I never think evil nor think any thing to the harm of my fellow man— & when I am called at the trump & weighed in the balance you will know me then— I add no more God bless you amen— [25 lines blank] [p. 22]