Discourse, 12 May 1844, as Reported by Thomas Bullock

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-12-may-1844-as-reported-by-thomas-bullock/1
Date: May 12, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of Thomas Bullock

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 12 May 1844]. Featured version inscribed [ca. 12 May 1844]; handwriting of ; two pages; JS Collection, CHL. Includes docket and notations.
Bifolium measuring 12½ × 7¾ inches (32 × 20 cm). The bifolium’s pages are ruled with thirty-nine horizontal lines printed in blue ink, now faded. The discourse was inscribed on the recto and verso of the first leaf. The second leaf contains a few lines of text that carry over from the verso of the first leaf onto the recto of the second leaf. The document was folded for filing and docketed. There are stains—apparently from water—on the recto of the first leaf, and there is some separation along several of the folds.
The document was docketed by , who served as JS’s scribe from 1843 to 1844 and as clerk to the church historian and recorder from 1845 to 1865. Bullock later inscribed a graphite notation. The notation “A.J” was added by Andrew Jenson, who began working in the Church Historian’s Office (later Church Historical Department) in 1891 and served as assistant church historian from 1897 to 1941. The document was listed in an inventory that was produced by the Church Historian’s Office circa 1904. By 1973 this discourse had been included in the JS Collection at the Church Historical Department (now CHL). The document’s early docket and notations, its listing in a circa 1904 inventory, and its later inclusion in the JS Collection indicate continuous institutional custody.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 12 May 1844, JS preached a discourse in , Illinois, in which he defended himself against his critics and spoke on the salvation and resurrection of the dead. By this time, tensions had been growing for months between JS and his opponents in Nauvoo. On 18 April 1844, a council excommunicated , JS’s former counselor in the , along with his wife, ; his brother ; and . JS’s opponents subsequently organized a rival church with William Law as its president. Although various individuals had visited JS’s opponents attempting to effect a reconciliation, on 6 May the unanimously concluded to no longer “feel after” the Laws (William, Jane, and Wilson), Foster, and and but instead to deliver “them over to the buffetings of .” Following this decision, JS received notice on 7 May that his enemies had purchased a printing press. On 11 May, reported that and Francis M. Higbee were in , Illinois, speaking against JS. The next day, some three hundred people attended a meeting of William Law’s church held in Nauvoo.
On the morning of 12 May, JS delivered a discourse from an outdoor rostrum near the construction site. In this sermon, JS defended himself against his detractors, who accused him of being a fallen prophet. Besides addressing his opponents’ accusations, JS taught the doctrine of salvation for the dead through proxy —such as —emphasizing the need for the dead to receive all the same ordinances necessary to save the living. JS also explained certain aspects of the resurrection.
noted that he “learned a great deal” from JS’s sermon, and wrote that he “never felt more delighted with his [JS’s] Discourse than at this time” and stated that “it put me in Mind of Herod when they said at his Oration it is the Voice of A God and not of A Man.”
Three extant versions of the discourse exist. , who provided the most extensive account of the discourse, was present when JS spoke and presumably took notes at that time. However, the quality of his handwriting and the small number of abbreviations in the surviving text suggest that Bullock’s account is a fair copy rather than the original, hastily inscribed notes he would have taken down as JS spoke. A number of insertions were later made to Bullock’s account. A few of these were added before the discourse was recorded in the sermon book, but the majority were most likely made when the sermon was prepared for inclusion in the manuscript history in the 1850s. These later insertions are not included in Bullock’s account as featured here. Additionally, Samuel W. Richards and each wrote accounts of the sermon—likely from notes they took at the time JS spoke. All three extant accounts of JS’s discourse are featured here.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

The Savior has the words of Eternal life— nothing else can profit us— there is no salvation in believing an evil against our neighbor— I advise all to go on to perfection and search deeper into the mysteries of Godliness— a man can do nothing for himself— the last time I spoke it was on the resurrection of the dead; when I promised to continue it— I still feel a desire to say something on this subject— let us this very day begin anew. and now say we will be righteous— I shall read the 24th. ch of Matthew and give it a litteral rendering & reading, and when rightly understood will be edifying (he translated it from the German) I thought the very oddity of its rendering would be edifying any how— “And it will preached be, the Gospel of the Kingdom in the whole world, to a witness over all people, and then will the end come”. I will now read it in German— (several persons said he translated it correct) the Savior said, when those tribulations should take place, it should be committed to a man, who should be a witness over the whole world, the of knowledge, power, and revelations, should be revealed to a witness who should hold the testimony to the world; it has always been my province to dig up hidden mysteries, new things, for my hearers— just at the time when some men think that I have no right to the keys just at that time, I have the greatest right— the Germans are an exalted people, the old German translators is the most correct, most honest and therefore I get testimony to bear me out in the revelations that I have preached for the last 14 years— the old German, Latin, Greek and Hebrew all say it is true, they cannot be impeached, and I am in good company— all the testimony is, that the Lord in the last days would commit the keys to a witness over all people— has the Gospel of the Kingdom commenced in the last days, and will God take it from the man, until he takes him, himself, I have read it precisely as the words flowed from the lips of Jesus Christ— John the Revelator saw an angel flying thro’ the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, &c. the Scripture is ready to be fulfilled when great wars, famines, pestilence, judgments &c are ready to be poured out on the Inhabitants of the Earth— John saw the angel having the priesthood who should preach— God had an angel, ordained, & prepared for that purpose in the last days— Woe! Woe! be to that man, or set of men, who lift up their hands against God and his Witness in these last days—— for they shall deceive almost the very chosen ones— my enemies say I have been a true prophet— & I had rather be a fallen true prophet, than a false prophet; when a man goes about prophesying and commands men to obey him, he must be either a true or false prophet— false prophets always arise to oppose the true prophets, and will deceive almost the very chosen ones— the doctrine of eternal judgments belong to the 1st. principles of the Gospel in the last days— in relation to the Kingdom of God— the devil always sets up his Kingdom at the very same time— every man who has a calling to the world, was to that very purpose in the grand Council of Heaven— I suppose that I was ordained to this very office in that grand Council— it is the testimony that I want, that I am God’s servant, and this people his people— in the last days the God of Heaven shall set up a Kingdom & the very time that was calculated on, this people was struggling to bring it out— he that arms himself with Gun, sword, or Pistol will some time be sorry for it— I never carry any thing bigger than my Pen Knife— when I was dragged before the Cannon and muskets in , I was unarmed, God will always protect me
I calculate to be one of the Instruments of setting up the Kingdom of Daniel, by the word of the Lord, and I intend to revolutionize the whole world— I once offered my life to the Mob as a sacrifice for my people— and here I am— it will not be by Sword or Gun that this Kingdom will roll on— all nations will be under the necessity of obeying the Gospel— the prediction is that army will be against army— it may be that the Saints will have to beat their Ploughs into Swords [p. [1]]

it will not do for men to sit down and see their women destroyed patiently, my text is 14 John In my Fathers house are many mansions &c In my Father’s Kingdom are many Kingdoms— in order that ye may be heirs of God and joint heirs with me— I do not believe the methodist doctrine of sending honest men, and noble minded men to hell, along with the murderer and adulterer— they may hurl all their hell and fiery billows upon me, for they will roll off me as fast as they come on— but I have an order of things to save the poor fellows at any rate, and get them saved for I will send men to preach to them in prison and save them if I can. there is &c for those who are alive, and baptism for the dead, all who died without the knowledge of the gospel I am going on in my progress for eternal life— it is not only necessary that you should be baptised for your dead, but you will have to go thro’ all the for them, same as you have to save yourself; there will be 144,000 and an innumerable host, that no man can number— Oh! go forward, go forward and make your calling and your election sure— and if any man preach any other gospel than that which I have preached, he shall be cursed, and some of you who now hear me, shall see it— in regard to the law of the — there should be a place where all nations shall come up from time to time to receive their , and the Lord has said, this shall be the place for the baptism for the dead— every man that has been baptized and belongs to the Kingdom, has a right to be baptized for those who are gone before, and, as soon as the Law is obeyed here the Lord has administrators there, to set them free— a man may act as proxy for his own relatives— the ordination was laid out before the foundation of the world— those who we have much friendship for, it must be first revealed to man from God lest he should run too far— as in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive, all shall be raised from the dead— the Lamb of God hath brought to pass the resurrection so that all shall rise from the dead— God Almighty himself dwells in Eternal fire, flesh and blood cannot go there, all corruption is devoured by the fire— our God is a consuming fire— when our flesh is quickened by the Spirit, there will be no blood— some dwell in higher glory than others— those who have done wrong, always have that wrong knawing them— Immortality dwells in everlasting burning— I will from time to time reveal the subjects that are revealed to me— all the lies that are now hatched up are of the devil— & all the influence of the devil will be used against the kingdom of God— the Servants of God teach nothing but eternal life— by their works ye shall know them— a good man will speak good things,— I feel in the name of the Lord, to rebuke all such bad principles, liars &c and look out who you are going after— I exhort you to give heed to all the virtue and the teachings which I have given you; you cannot go any where, but where God can find you out; all must rise, all must enter eternity— in order for you to receive your children to yourself, you must have a promise, some ordinance some blessing— or else it may be an angel— they must rise just as they died— we can there hail our lovely infants with the same glory, the same loveliness in the where they all enjoy alike— they differ in stature, in size— the same glorious spirit gives them the likeness of glory and bloom— the old man with his silvery hairs will glory in bloom & beauty— no man can describe it to you— no man can write it— when did I ever teach any thing wrong from this stand? when was I ever confounded? I want to triumph in Israel before I depart hence and am no more seen— I never told you I was perfect— but there is no error in the revelations which I have taught— must I then be thrown away as a thing of nought?— I enjoin for your consideration, add to your faith, virtue, love &c I testify that no man has power to reveal it, but myself, things in heaven, in earth and hell— and all shut your mouths for the future— I commend you all to God, that you may inherit all things— & may God add his blessing
Amen. [p. [2]]

[pages [3]–[4] blank] [p. [3]]

[page [4] blank] [p. [4]]