Discourse, 10 March 1844, as Reported by James Burgess

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-10-march-1844-as-reported-by-james-burgess/1
Date: March 10, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of James Burgess

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 10 Mar. 1844]. Featured version inscribed [ca. 10 Mar. 1844] in James Burgess, Journal and Notebook, 20 Oct. 1841–10 Dec. 1848, pp. [19]–[24]; handwriting of ; James Burgess, Journals, CHL. Includes redactions, notations, and archival labels. For more complete source information, see the source note for Discourse, 6 Apr. 1843–B, as Reported by James Burgess.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 10 Mar. 1844, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Joseph Smith Prophet of the spirit of Elias I must go back to the time at susquahannah river when I retired in the woods pouring out my soul in prayr to Almighty God, An Angel came down from heaven and laid his hands upon me and me to the power of Elias and that authorised me to with water unto repentance, It is a power or a preparatory work for something greater, you have not power to for the but you shall have power given you hereafter, that is the power of the , this is the power which John the babtist was clothed with when he came bounding out of the wilderness saying repent ye for the kingdom of heaven is come unto you or is at hand, For there [p. [19]]

standeth one among you whose shoes latchett I am not worthy to unloose. he has greater power than I have he will you with fire and with the holy ghost. Jesus said of John this is Elias which was for to come if you will receive me otherwise he cannot do the work of an Elias, for Elias is preparatory for something greater to prepare my way before me I have power to restore all things and establish my kingdom amongst you, but if you will not receive me and my doctrine, he is not that Elias which was for to come for he cannot accomplish that for which he was sent, see 1st chap of John 19 to 22 verse for he confessed that he was not Elias why because they would not receive him that was coming after him, namely Christ. Philip was clothed with the power of Elias when he went to samaria he could babtise for remission of sins, but could not for the , but sent for Peter and John who had the power of Eligah &c [p. [20]]

Acts 19 chap Paul when he came to Corinth found certain diciples and asked them if they had received the holy ghost since they bleived believed, and they said we have not so much as heard of the holy ghost and with what surprise says he unto them, unto what were you and they said unto Johns babtism, not so not so my friends if you had you would have heard of the holy ghost, but you have been duped by some designing knave who has come in the name of John an imposture, how do you know it Paul why John verilly babtised with water unto repentance always telling the people that they should beleive on him that should come after him, he would babtise with fire and with the holy ghost, Johns babtism stood good but these had been babtised by some imposture.
The spirit of Elijah is to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers lest I come [p. [21]]

and smite the earth with a curse this for the dead and the that is to be administered by us for them for paul says that they without us cannot be made perfect neither can we without them be made perfect. Now we come to talk about election a great deal is said about it, one way or another, The prespetari Presbyterian says once in grace always in grace, the methodist says once in grace can fall from grace and be renewed again. there is some truth in both of these statements Paul says in the 6 chap of hebrews that after arriving at a certain knowledge and then fall away it is impossible to renew them again, well paul the prespatarian says once in grace always in grace I say it is not so the Methodist says once in grace can fall from grace and be renewed again I Paul say it is impossible seeing that they crucify to themselves the son of God afresh and put him to an open shame. [p. [22]]

Make your calling and election sure go on from grace to grace untill you obtain a promise from God for yourselves that you shall have eternal life, this is eternal life to know God and his son Jesus Christ, it is to be up unto eternal life and obtain a promise for our posterity. Whatever you shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, this is the power of Elijah to seal or bind or turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, sealed against all sin but the sin of sheding innocent blood and the sin against the holy ghost. David was one of the promised seed yet he was guilty of murder see Acts Chap 2 & 3 other sins will go to judgement before hand. Joseph Smith prophet [p. [23]]

Revelation given through Joseph Smith in answer to a certain question Son of Man if you live untill you are 85 years of age you shall see the face of the Son of Man and so long as you see the rainbow stretching across the heavens there will be seed time and harvest and the Son of man will not come that year. [p. [24]]