Minutes and Discourses, 6–8 April 1844, as Reported by Thomas Bullock

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourses-6-8-april-1844-as-reported-by-thomas-bullock/1
Date: April 6, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of Thomas Bullock

Special conference of the church, Minutes, and JS, Discourses, [Nauvoo, Hancock Co., IL], 6–8 Apr. 1844. Featured version inscribed in Thomas Bullock, Minutes, Nauvoo, Hancock Co., IL, 6–9 Apr. 1844, pp. 1–29; handwriting of ; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL. Includes dockets, use marks, and notations.
Twenty-one loose leaves and one bifolium measuring 12⅜ × 7⅝ × ⅛ inches (31 × 19 × 0.3 cm). Each page is ruled with either thirty-four or thirty-five blue lines. Some leaves are embossed in the top left corner of the recto with the inscription “D & J. AMES”, the insignia of a Springfield, Massachusetts, paper mill firm established by brothers David and John Ames in 1828. At some point, the leaves were unevenly cut by hand. After inscribed the minutes, the document was folded for filing. When the conference minutes were edited for publication, graphite and ink use marks were added. There are holes from staples (now removed) in the upper left corner of the recto of each leaf.
, who served as JS’s scribe from 1843 to 1844 and as clerk to the church historian and recorder from 1845 to 1865, docketed the minutes. The notation “A. J” was apparently later added twice by Andrew Jenson, who served as assistant church historian from 1897 to 1941. In the mid-twentieth century, the document was included in a miscellaneous minutes collection that was a vestige of a genre-based filing method used by the Church Historian’s Office (now CHL) in the first half of the twentieth century. This document genre collection contained many documents that subsequently formed the basis for the General Church Minutes collection that was cataloged in 1994. The document’s dockets, its notations, and its inclusion within the General Church Minutes collection suggest continuous institutional custody.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

From 6 to 8 April 1844, the held a special in , Illinois, in which JS and other church leaders gave extensive discourses and for which church clerk kept minutes. This conference marked the fourteenth anniversary of the church’s founding.
Prior to the April conference, tensions had been growing for months between JS and his opponents in . On 24 March, JS publicly accused , , , , and of plotting to take his life and the lives of his family members. Around the same time, William Law, a disaffected former member of the , told that he “was ready for an investigation before the Conference, and that there [he] would bring their abominations to light,” referring to the practice of plural marriage. Hyrum reportedly replied that “there would not be an investigation before [the] Conference, that they wanted peace.” At some point, Law apparently “sent Joseph and some of the , special word that he desired an investigation before the Church in General Conference, on the 6th of Ap’l.” JS, Hyrum Smith, and alluded to these difficulties during the April conference.
Another noteworthy development preceding the conference was the formation of the . On 11 March 1844, JS formally organized this secret body, which he and his closest associates saw as the beginning of the literal kingdom of God on earth. The Council of Fifty’s principal concerns included JS’s candidacy for the presidency, wide-ranging discussions about the meaning of the kingdom of God, and a possible Latter-day Saint emigration to the or elsewhere in the West. , who had been admitted to the Council of Fifty on 19 March 1844, referenced this body at several points during the conference.
Although work on the would not resume until 11 April 1844, efforts to raise funds for the building’s construction were ongoing. , a plural wife of , reported that after praying to know what she might do to build God’s kingdom, she felt “a most Pleasant sensation” and had the impression to “try to get the Sisters to subscribe one Cent per Week for the purpose of buying glass and nails for the Temple.” Thompson then went to JS and related to him “what seemed to be the wisperings of the still small voice,” and he approved her proposal. She next told her plan to Hyrum Smith, who, according to Thompson, “was much plea[s]ed and did all in his power to encourage and help by speaking to the Sisters on the subject in private and public promising them that they should recieve their blessings in that Temple.” Early in 1844, Hyrum “made a proclamation to the female members of the church, calling upon them to subscribe one cent per week each, in money for the purpose of buying the Glass and Nails for the Temple.” On 7 March 1844, he addressed the men of the church, urging them to contribute money to purchase gunpowder and fuses needed for the construction of the temple. He noted that the women were paying for the necessary glass and nails and requested that “the brethren . . . do as much as the sisters.” During the April conference, Hyrum Smith renewed his calls for funds and materials to forward the work of building the temple.
By all accounts, large congregations attended the April conference, which was held in the east of the construction site. JS opened the meeting on the morning of 6 April with some brief remarks explaining the conference’s business and defending his standing as a true prophet. , one of JS’s counselors, followed with a lengthy discourse on the history of the church and the kingdom of God. , a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, then spoke, lamenting the failure of the to live up to its potential as a land of liberty by guaranteeing the rights of the Saints. After an intermission, Rigdon took the entire afternoon session to continue his discourse from the morning.
The following day, 7 April, renewed his sermon on the church and the kingdom of God, followed by an intermission, during which were performed. , the church’s and a member of the , then addressed the Saints, urging them to contribute to the construction of the and counseling them to refrain from judging those who appeared to be apostatizing. JS was the concluding speaker on 7 April, preaching a long funeral sermon for church member , who had died on 9 March. In this discourse, JS taught about the nature of God and humankind and defended himself against accusations that he was a fallen prophet.
JS again spoke on the morning of 8 April, instructing the congregation about the location of , the , and the of the Latter-day Saints. After his exertion the previous day to make himself heard to a large group in the open air, JS’s lungs were exhausted, and he was forced to give a shorter discourse. To compensate for his inability to speak at length, JS requested that address the congregation, having previously given Adams some instruction on what he should teach. Adams then gave an extensive discourse that focused on the literal establishment of Zion and the salvation of the dead through vicarious . In the early afternoon, the special conference closed, and the meeting was turned over to the , who held an conference that afternoon and the next day.
The reaction to the April conference was mixed. For some it was an uplifting experience. observed that “the speakers have all had the Spirit of the Lord upon them. spoke powerful—and told of great things.” He considered the conference “the greatest, best and most glorious five days that ever were consecutively” and concluded that “all rejoiced” with “much good done.” Others shared Bullock’s sentiment. Ellen Douglas wrote to her family in that “the teaching which we heard made our hearts rejoice. I for one feel to rejoice and to praise my God that he ever sent the Elders of Israel to England and that he ever gave me a heart to believe them.” Likewise, Sally Randall wrote to her friends: “I wish you could have the teachings that we have here at the conference.” In contrast, remarked that “some of the most blasphemous doctrines have been taught by J. Smith & others” during the conference, referring, among other things, to JS’s teachings about the nature of God and humankind and ’s teachings on the kingdom of God.
Four individuals—, , , and —attempted to capture the proceedings of the April conference. Bullock, Clayton, and Richards all recorded their accounts while the speakers were preaching. Bullock specifically attended the conference as a reporter, and his notes are the most comprehensive of the four accounts. Clayton and Richards often acted as scribes for JS, and they may have been assigned to record the proceedings as well. Woodruff recorded a refined version of his notes from the conference in his journal. After the conference concluded, Bullock compiled the conference’s minutes for publication. The Times and Seasons subsequently published polished accounts of the 6 April morning session and the 7 April afternoon session, which were an amalgamation of Bullock’s and Clayton’s notes. Bullock’s rough minutes are featured here.
See also Historical Introductions to Discourse, 6 Apr. 1844; Discourse, 7 Apr. 1844; and Discourse, 8 Apr. 1844.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Prayer by , after which the Choir sung an hymn. with no ordinary degree of satisfaction felt the privilege that he enjoyed this morning— want of health has kept him in silence for nearly five years.— violence of disease using its influence— seeds of disease &c all combined prostrated him he has come forth from his bed of sickness— for the first time in his character— he had not come before a for the last 5 years— I hardly promise myself lungs to make this congregation hear me— I shall do the best I can and the greatest can do no more— the history of this which I have known from its infancy— my text is Behold the Church of Jesus Christ in the last days— I can make a text for myself as well as Paul— I recollect in the year 1830 I met the whole Church of Christ in a little old log house about 20 feet square near Waterloo— we talked with great confidence and talked big things altho but few— knew 14 years ago that it would be as large to day as it is— we were as big then as we shall ever be. if we did not see this people— we saw it thousands larger— the people thought we were going to upset the government altho we were not enough to man a farm all Elders— all the members met in conference in a room 20 feet square— was put in jail for reading a Book of Mormon— he came to see us— he after came to and said he was a convert— many things were taught, preached, & believed then we knew the whole world would laugh at us— so we concealed ourselves— we had things to say to one another that nobody else knew of— all nations should flock to it— whole nations born in one day— we talked such big things. we could tell such things for the salvation of men— we were obliged to retire to our secret chambers and commune ourselves with God— we have now arrived at the age of 14 & can now choose our own Guardian— if we had told them, what our eyes now behold this day— they would not be believed, but the rascals would have shed our blood if we had only told them what we believed— we saw all things pass and repass— here I never could have been here— we were alone. we had to run and hide ourselves from the violence of the mobs. the time has come now, to tell why we did it— we were maturing plans 14 years ago which we can now tell— no secret plans— no combinations— you never would have been here had it not been for the little meetings we had— the cry of false prophet and Imposter would have rolled us— all things were engraved upon the hearts of them— never could be taken out of the heart— it was indelibly engraved— no power could obliterate— it— this was the period when God laid the foundations of the Church of God and laid it firmly— if any man said it was not the work of God I know they lie— some of you who know you have a house how long would it take to make you reason yourself into a believe that— you had no house who will rise or fall— but we know that here is the Church of God and I have authority before God [p. 1]

I have slept with it I have walked with it and I defy men and devils to put me out I defy all— I know God I have gazed upon the throne Glories and visions of God & the visions of Eternity— I know it to be true— what has a man of God to do with the little things— he sits in the throne and laughs at you— one blast of his— sends you in hell— these are the beginning of good days shut up in a room eating nothing but dry Johnny Cake and buttermilk every man who had a little farm, or clothes, sold and distributed it— I saw the time that I had nothing to eat— nothing to wear— and yet it was the beginning of good days some says I want plenty to eat, to drink, to wear, and a good house to live in & then I will believe— but God wont do it— no wonder then that we should be joyful to day— glories gazed on— but told where Jehovah looked on— lo it is beauty— it is heaven— it is felicity to look on— I should marvel if it was otherwise— if a man tells you one glory one message, he is learning another— dont be astonished at seeing men in secret meeting asking God for things for your benefit— go back to the commencement of this and see what was concocted then, why then fear, dread— has god forgotten to be merciful— to mankind— did he ever concock [concoct] any thing that was devlish for man— he could not do it, but I would hold him before he should do it— I have none of those fears, jealousies, dreads, &c whatever God does for me it is for to save me— your instructions, your doings shall be for my salvation— a man is a bad teemster who runs his team in the worst road— how much like the Gospel— I have been surprized (several Indians now came in) I have given this congregation thanks— I have higher testimony than that. I have given you the order of the beginning. I have handled, seen, heard things which I have not yet told— after this church began to grow— it was favored with men who were wise men— who taught your virtue— some sectarian— some men turn out things which the devil has revealed—— when Israel went up to Canaan— many were snivelling and murmuring so it is in the last days— but they are not so well fixed as Moses was— for he gave them leeks and onions— for he killed them— and took better men into the land— but we are not going to it— they may go on the way to hell without a grunt after you— every year these things have been told of— many men have more wisdom before it is revealed— and knows all things before they are heard— they understand more than God knows— if we get all nations we get all wisdom— the Great Jehovah sits in heaven and tells us how he wills to save men— I do not know whether there any of these wise men, are here—
we talked about heaven’s plan of salvation— I will give some reasons why salvation only belongs to the kingdom of God and to that alone— to us peculiarly— will that be clear enough I discover one thing mankind has labored under one universal mistake about this— Salvation is always the result of Government for God always set up a kingdom by Governt. [p. 2]

I will say to the defiance of all men— no man is not an honorable man if he is not above all law— I see in our town we have need of Government some study law only to know how many feuds, broils they can kick up and say “I know my rights and will have them”— “I did not know it was the marshall or I would not have done it” he is no Gentleman— no marshall nor no one else should pull me up— I would live a great way inside where law rules— I would live far above all law— it is far more righteous than living as they do—
(the Prophet) will rest a few moments from his exertion
The Choir sung 104th.
— I address this congregation with pleasure— to tell those principles— to enlarge their minds or produce any beneficial results I am well repaid— many things have been spoken by with edification— their hearts must be touched by those things that have been recited at pleasure— we trace the rise of kingdoms— of nations &c historians dwells with great minuteness into the history of those men who took the lead of those kingdoms— chieftains— republics— we look back to the time when this was under the rule and tyranny of Great Britain— we trace the names of Washington La Fayette &c— all men look upon this thing with as great a view as any of these things— how much more great— more noble are these things— can we be surprized when we see a man of God who can contemplate the glories— the visions of eternity— and a man of God who now beholds the things roll on which he has beheld in prophetic vision. where is the comparison of things which are past and things which are present— most men have established their kingdoms by blood by tyranny— whence did most of the mighty men get their glory— one history of blood, carnage and desolation— and yet these great men were called honorable by their deeds of rapine and slay their thousands— cause the orphans to weep and the widows to mourn— they have made themselves immortal— as great men the Patriot’s of this had a laudable view they stood up in defence of freedom &c &c but where is it now— alas the gold has become dim— where are those laws that say that all men are born free— where is the Constitution that says they shall worship God according to the dictates of your conscience— ye are exiles in a land of freedom— let it not be told among the monarchs of Europe lest they laugh and say Ah Ah as we would have it— let it not go abroad that your are exiles— but tell your rulers all their deeds of fame are tarnished— are we now in a land of Liberty freedom No we are stripped of our possessions and our Government authorities say your cause is just but we can do nothing for you— here are thousands of men in bondage and you say you are in a land of freedom— shake off your fetters and proclaim us free— I spoke of this [p. 3]

because it is one of the greatest, pure, best, and yet what a melancholy picture your cause &c Oh your venerable fathers who fought for your — mourn mourn over your s shame— we have one of the best, the most patriotic the most pure, as a pattern, and yet what a picture— here we speak of a La Fayette Washington Munroe [Monroe] Jefferson— and yet what has been done— those glorious men have done— scarcely has one generation passed away— and what is our situation 15000 people petition Government but can obtain no redress— a few men in a log cabin to see the visions, through the vista, and behold the things of futurity— they were laying the foundation. of those things that had been, were, and would be, when I gaze upon this company I gaze upon a Co. who will stand up in defence of the opprest of whatever country, nation, color or clime and they have received from the bosom of the Great Eloiheam. all power of mobs— &c &c cannot quench it— it is comprehensive as the designs of God expansive as the Universe— I do not care if he is a man of this Color, a Negro— or who he is I say cherish them let them expand— if the tree of liberty has been knawed by worms we will stand up in defence of our liberties & proclaim ourselves free, in time and in Eternity
The Prophet spoke— morning gone &c— choir sing the Red Man 1/4 to 1.
Prayer by — dismissed for one hour [1/2 page blank] [p. 4]

April 6th. 1844
afternoon meeting
The president arrived at 1/2 past 2. The Choir sung an hymn. Prayer by — The Choir again sung— said we were discoursing on the history of the — he had got tired of hunting the Bible for a text— I have heard many an excellent discourse spoiled from a bad text— in the earliest history of the Church of Christ— the manner in which light was given the height & depth of conviction— all persons whoever they were who had turned away from the Church of Christ & said they did not believe. I give the lie— they do not believe that it is the Church of Christ for it was driven into him with an irresistable force— the things that were in its infancy done in secret are now made known to this immense congregation— there never will be anything but what will be your property but the time is coming when every eye shall see and every ear shall [h]ear I happen to know all its history— and I intend to day that you and the world shall hear when God was revealing his will— I have been with the President for weeks seeking God with prayer and fasting— and when it was known that we were there— a mob of 20 or 30 ruffians came damning & roaring against us— our houses were surrounded— at this important period the heavens were opened to us— there was a Gentleman from came & spent a number of days with us— he walked out in a dark night & saw in one place a man armed with a rifle & he found no less than a dozen & he seen them all more than half a mile— & he swore he would kill some of those rascals— at last there got some hundreds of them— I was dragged out of my bed & was put on a large wood pile— some were putting it on me my head went thump thump upon the hard frozen ground— they then threw a quantity of pitch upon me and when they attempted to threw some thing else on me I fell and the next morning when I went to the same place I found it was a quantity of aqua fortis that they were going to throw on me— I think it right to let this congregation. know a few of these events— this Church has come up thro great tribulation, trouble &c &c & all the powers that the devil ever thot. of— there are men in your midst this day who fears neither men nor devils— you have men in your midst who you can do nothing with them— you cannot do any thing this side eternity with them no rebels no powers nor angels can do any thing with them & if you want to get rid of them you must send them to their father in heaven for you can not send them to hell for they can defy the powers of hell & all the combined powers of darkness— & all the universe has got to learn it either in this world or in Eternity— he talked with them as I talk with you My Son My Son fear them not— for I am Israels God— they have no fear for they have seen the very place they are going to— they know what sort of God— business— employment &c is there— they know all about it— there are men in your midst this day who you have got to sustain or you will dam yourselves— for if you do sustain them [p. 5]

you save yourselves— if you do not sustain them— you will dam yourselves & go to hell any how— the is now just 14 & will now choose its own Guardian you have this day to choose your own Guardian— my text is the church of Christ— you may choose, refuse, accept, or reject— they will dam themselves & save the very men they want to kill. I have been kept by the power of disease for the last 5 years not to speak but I am determined this day to do it— God has called them by their name— he has talked with them— they have their face before them & you cannot turn them out of it— & if you get in their way you will be very likely to get kicked out of their way— you cannot court— flatter— nor turn them out of their way for they turn neither to the right or left— & they ask favor of yonder God & yonder god alone— they never give the world any cause to hate them— so stands the Church of God this day— God has bound it up to himself— have you ever seen a man that you cannot hate or curse I ever for hate is turned away & instead of a curse a blessing comes— you are come to a mighty — there is no man of God but what is like to it— depart from me ye workers of iniquity I never knew you an important point in the history of the Church of Christ & if you lose sight of it you lose sight of Eternal life. if you intend to hang me for treason— you must get ready— for the God of Heaven is setting up a kingdom of his own right in the midst of all— & swallow up all— all men want to get situations and so attempt to put it down but they cant do it— I want to be Sherriff— another. Constable— anr. County Clerk some one thing & some another— when God sets up his Kingdom he sets it up above all law. all human law— but it is bound by the laws of Heaven which are far more holy. we are above the laws all the time— we manage our own affairs we are ready to pay our own taxes— our own expences— we will hang every scoundrel & rid the whole world of them— make gallowses is the most profitable of all businesses to hang up the whole of the devils kingdom— I want you all to know that God is building his Kingdom right in & yet not breaking a single law of the world— no law shall ever catch me without catching themselves first— God teaches his kingdom to reverence authorities powers dignities & so be above all the laws of man— I want to be a King one of God Almighty’s own making that I may be a King & a Priest unto my God & all ye Kings Rulers Princes if you do not attend to it I will seal you up to the d—— of hell I dont care a single lick: about you— do not do as the nasty soundrels did in because we would not break any law go to work & murder us I dam such Governors. as those— I am not afraid of any thing about it [p. 6]

I determined to let it out if the wind blew all the trees down— or if there is a legion of devils round about— I want to be a King & will not do without it— what to be a Constable upon Earth— I do not speak of any thing out of disrespect— I have taken this labor upon me this day so that I may not be misunderstood I am telling you how I look at it— I would not rise up to take any office— the Kingdom of God starts up in the midst of a Government. & yet never break a single law— I am a man that lives entirely above all law & cares nothing at all about it— I live by other rules by other regulations— by more intelligence than others I am a man that abides the law of heaven— I hope I am understood I know too well of the laws of the to know what I am about— this is the reason we were mobbed in because we were a law abiding people— because we would not break the laws they would kill us— I believe God will purge this too— we have a Kingdom so organized that if it was set down among Angels it would be an honor to them— & as it is the world it is a light shining in dark places— I am saying in the presence of this people that God can build his King— without breaking our law of any Kingdom in any Country, Clime, language— notify the Congregation that I am full of preaching I have not done half enough, & is dismissed till ten tomorrow morning [1/2 page blank] [p. 7]

[verso of page 7 blank]

Sunday April 7th. 1844
Morning meeting
The President arrived at 10 oclock when the Choir sung an hymn “The Spirit of God like a fire is burning”, an affectionate appeal by on behalf of the sick, and prayer by him on their behalf— after which prayer by . The choir sung an hymn— The Prophet requested the people to have good order— suffer no talking— observe the police to keep order— dont say you cant do anything for us—” and the Constitutional power calls them to keep good order says the boundaries of the Congregation are much enlarged to what they were yesterday and requested silence in order that all if possible may hear and understand he will not give a detail but pursue the same subject & preach from the same text the , the Kingdom of God, the Kingdom of Daniel— the Stone— came to the character that the Prophets gave it so as to be the Kingdom— & give it the right to exist by any Government. whether Monarchical Republican or any other but to be entitled to the protection. of that Govt. we Intend to take a short view of the reasons why Salvation. belongs to this K— & this K— only— & it is to that part of the subject. we intend to rest on this morning.— it enteres into the very feelings— dispositions & feelings of a mans heart it is exercised upon principles that only belongs to itself & when it gains the ascendancy. once it keeps it always, not by force of external law, but by voluntary obedience it is by this power it exercises its dominion., it is by purifying the mind & making man acquainted with himself, God, Devil & every other thing— & which will cause men to obey with his last breath whether by being killed with wild beasts or any thing else what is the principle: of Salvn the Lord begins to teach him what things he can do & how he can gain the victory over every thing— Man would not know his power without being tried— whether. in prison, poisonous reptiles— but the world is led by the Devil because they feel they have no power & Man never learns this power but in the K— of God— no Govt. or Empire teaches this— one of the Great things of the K— of heaven is to teach man what power he has— & so obtain. victory for Eternal life— the contrast between. the K of God & of men— man has some inherent princl. principle in him. it enters to the sick bed— the plagues & pestilences: of the diseases— plagues Devil. & power over all things.— healing. the sick. casting. out devils— is the quintesence of Salvation. & living in the influence of it & is no less than the power of God & no T. K temporal kingdom— has power to save men wher. Political Civil or any other sort— I only proclaim it has an honest man— all religions. in the world that do not tend— to this princl. have a direct tendency to blind men & lull men asleep— that the Lord. promised. in the L. D. [latter days] to set up a K— in order to restore his powers to the world that he would. set up his K. in order to upset all false doctrines K. &c in order to give [p. 8]

all the power to man & to hail the auspicious day when they would. teach men in deed & in truth— there is no other. organization. that ever existed but the K of God— Saln. is a complete victory over every other. thing Isaiah: said. the Wilderness shall blossom as a Rose— the blind shall see— deaf hear— lame leap for joy dumb speak &c & yet men call it our Impn. & the Lord sd. that it shod be the very reason that the recompense of the Lord. shall come— the Son will come & save you, that you may have no more blind, dumb, deaf, lame, sick, Devil, how to rise above sickness diseases & to proclaim salvan in the midst of the Earth— now we examine the power of God unto saln. shall beat the swords & spears into pruning hooks— men have learned to war against. one anor men have warred K agt. K— nation. ag Natn. but I now proclaim peace, brotherly. love, Union unto men & teach a K not to war any more— this is more like Saln. & the K of heaven in the L D. [latter days] has it not right to be in any K on the Earth but to turn all to peace union harmony power working in faith & to dwell any where I will set up a K in the midst of the Earth but it shall be peace, holy, triumph, let no man fear about being killed because the Ld. sd. shod. be the K of the world— & I say it will be no injury to the world if all the people of the world— if they were here in peace harmony &c they wod. leave off all tumult & uproar— he intends to serve the world as he serves us & he will do to the whole world as he does by us, by the bond of Union, of love, faith &c & is that sort of K that is being brot. into the world— reflect seriously on this subject— the Gospel of Christ always prepared the K of God— always found materials in order to save all who obey it— it is a very simple thing & requires very little, or any ordinary honest man can easily obey— no more honest sanctified &c than his neighbors— Saln. came to save sinners not good folks— all kinds of natn. tongues colors & adapted the situation. to all men— he sd. to all he opened the door for all a system broad & simple enough for all— there is more in a mans mind than he is aware of— when the Savior. published. his gospel to the world said he that believeth &c he came & proclaimed the Gospel only one single act of the mind was necessary— a man sd. he did not belong to any Church & was unworthy to belong to any— the Gospel was to suit this very man’s case— not to the honest & upright but to the corrupt & foul so that they may repent man does not know that God is looking down upon your actions like a father looking. down upon his Children— Father I am not worthy [p. 9]

the Savior wants you just to believe that he tells you the truth, same as a tender father wants his children to turn again unto him— he who is a Stranger & does not understand the plan of Salvation. may turn & be that he may be saved— it is impossible for any man to be better than he is now when a man is prayg. himself to God he is prayg. himself right into hell but when he calls oh my God I am unworthy I will obey— he is then taken by the hand & when he does obey he is made one of the family— the Lord says come my son Daughter listen to me— be baptized. & I will remit your all sins I will remember your transgressions no more. he will instruct you in common with all the rest the Saln. of every man & women turns upon only turn of the mind & can place himself so as to be a holy member of the K of God— if he decides against. it he places himself in opposition.— I need say but a few words on the Spirit— the Ld. says here is the 1st. act of obedience be bapd. & the very angels in heaven rejoice upon your decision to obey— & they rejoice— every man has this power within themselves & have the power to make the heavens glad Oh Sinner did you ever think of that— that you have this power in heaven as well as on Earth— wod. to God if there is a Sinner in this Congregation. that he may hear me— the Lord can wash thee as white as wool & as brilliant &c— I wod. like men that know not God just feel it for one moment— no man ever did a great thing until they did this thing & it is in the power with any scoundrel to obey & make the very heavens ring— let no man or woman say I am unworthy— but say I am just as worthy as my God will make me— do not blind your mind with Sectarianism.— I was once a Reg. Bap. I had an embt., I called upon men to repent & yet I was hampered. with my own teachings— & men went away sick— I understand how men are ignorant & do not understand I would to God that I cod. make myself more understood— methodists— teach Repentance & get prayg. circles— & pray without. any use & get an hyprocitical [hypocritical] conversion & fain a sham conversion in order to get rid of the world & I fain they carry their hypocrisy right down to hell with them— Satan has blinded the world he has told them all, but the truth— I have known the very young— go down down until they say that they are willing that God shd. dam them— Oh Shame Shame— God wod. say my little Child do you believe— yes my good master I do— then wash away thy sins— you know Brother. Spencer that you was in the same situation. that we were damg. the world [p. 10]

I want men women & every body to know their privileges— I have tasted that bitter cup that the d l [devil] gave me— if you are not on God’s right hand with the Saints you will be d—d— I never knew the time that I was ready to be d—d every one is ready to be saved— God intends to make men in thousands & millions to like the way— God will teach mankind that he is a K— and loves them, & they shall not want to go down to hell if they want to do— the Spirit— it is vastly inportant in the vast scheme of Heaven it is the crowning. theme— Repent & be every one of you for the remission. of your Sins that you may receive the I have now in my hand the proclamation made on the day of Pentecost: in the 2nd. ch of the Acts of the Apostles in relation. to the Spirit of promise which is given for the L. D.— the multitude gathered in the temple on the day of Pentecost it shews that they were entire strangers to the plan of Salvation. & only learnt it that very moment from the lips of the apostles they did not know that they had crucified. the Son of God— these men were supposed. to be drunk— & every word & thot. came from the lips of the Apostles: Peter sd. in the 16 v of the 2nd. ch of Acts ( read the ch) now observe that it was the only knowledge they had of the Holy Spirit Peter says that Joel promd. &c & he sd. that when he poured out his Spirit &c &c— Peter sd. this is the Holy Spirit that God shod. pour out upon the whole world.— ( read from the 31 v to the end) now observe minutely that this proclamn. was made after the Apostles had defined what the Spirit of God was he told them what a thing it was— that your sons & Daughters should be prophets your very domestics shall spring up & prophesy in the name of Israels God Oh that I cod. make the whole world hear— what I say: & Peter sd.— the Spirit of God is a Sp of prophecy visions revelations. & cod. touch the very domestics in your Kitchen— in the L D. says God I will give it to all flesh— this is the cream hear it all the Ends of the Earth— Repent said Peter when they were trying to ponder their way out from the very Gates of Hell— Repent be bapd every one of you out of this 3000 there must be some scoundrels he did not say you that are good be bapd. & you wicked remain until you are his— no— he told all, the wicked to be bapd. & they shod. have the H. Sp. [Holy Spirit] How long must a man wait upon the Sect. Scheme to get to see visions— you know as well as I that it would take seven Eternitys to begin— for God is not at the head of it— I have been called by an anxious preacher to get to an anxious bench until I can get the best cann. that I can be got, can I be got converted to God— no to the anxious bench [p. 11]

God says in the last days they shall prophecy— could I prophecy no. I durst not attempt— for I was not converted to God or he would. have me prophecy against. my hearts consent— for If I had the H Sp [Holy Spirit] I should have been prophesying. God says it shall be poured upon all flesh, I believe you are all flesh with some bones & live in the L D [latter days] & you shall have the you shall prophecy— your Sons & Daughters shall get on the tables & prophecy— & by this you shall know that you are converted. to God— & if you do not do it you are convd. to something else— let us not mistake ourselves to our own destruction.— it is to be the Gospel of the L D just as fast as people believe in the Scriptures: in the N. T. [New Testament]— you have got to tell them to repent to be that they may receive a remission. of sins & the gift of the H. G. under pain of the wrath of God— you shall go into all the world & preach the Gospel to every creature you shall dream dreams see visions &c & if you do not preach that you are preachg. the Gos. of another. Kingdom——
declared. that Bap. will be attended. to in the intermission of this meeting. & in the afternoon will be addressed by J. S. on the funeral discourse— & all who repent can attend at the foot of Main St. to be bapd. closed at 12— adjourned. till 2—
The Choir sung an Hymn “Praise God” betn. 15000 & 20000 persons present [2 lines blank]
called to order & wanted for the 200,000 Shingles, Provision, Money, Boards Planks & any thing that is good— dont want any old guns or watches. I want to get up a small subscription among the Sisters & as some persons supposed that it was got up among the . I did not ask it as a , I wished about 50 cents to be had to buy nails & glass I knew that a small subscription. would. obtain. more than a large one— every Sister can do a little— there is not one that cannot pay 52 cents in six months, & I call again until I get about 1,000 dollars it only requires 2000 subscriptions I have sent it to & I fear no one this side Hell— & I was not to be deterred by any woman or any one except the Prophet, I want you to pay in your sub. to me so that they may say I bought. part of that glass & there names shall be written in the book of the law of the Lord— it is not a tax but a free will offering.— all things are done away— I did it myself— this is aside from the Female Society— I am not a member of the F. Society. I wish to accomplish something. I do not want to say that the purse that has got 5 8— the widows two mites were more in the eyes of the Lord than the purse of the rich— and the poor woman shall have a seat in the house of God who pays her two mites as much as the rich. We want to get the roof in, the windows in [p. 12]

so that we may be able to dedicate the this time next year— at any rate dedicate the lower room— you cannot make a— comparison with that & any thing that now is great things will grow out of that — there is a great & mighty power to grow out of it there is an — knowledge is power— we have frequently difficulties with persons who profess to be L. D. S. Latter Day Saints when the Sac[ramen]t. will be administered. in the Lord’s it will do away with a great deal of difficulty that is now in existence— you poor Sisters shall have a seat in that I will stand on the top of the Pulpit & proclaim to all what the Sisters have done you will get a great portion of the Spirit of God enough to last you a week— & where we can instruct you in genl.— all the money shall be laid out as it is directed— I am one of the — the Com: tell me the Quarry is blockaded. The Stone Cutters are wanting work it is not necessary for me to tell you who will come— I will prophesy you will do it— there is not one in the who will not do it— except a few— I described them once & you will always know them when you see them— they will keep hopping till they hop out of Town some are Tree Toads who climb the Trees & are continually croaking— we are now the most noble people on the face of the Globe & we have no occasion to fear tadpoles or Tree Toads— we never should give out our judgment. till we hear both sides— A certain. Dutchman had a cause brought & heard one side & he said. By Sure you have got the case & when the other. party brot. their witness he sd. again. by sure & you have got the case— if you hear of any one high in authority. appears to apostacy dont cast out any thing against him but pray for him— I take a stand above all other nasty things— do you suppose we are going to bring difficulties before you—— no I do not want to trouble them with it— there is not a man who has had a difficulty— who wod. trouble this congregation. about. it— let them settle it themselves— dont think any thing abt. persons who are on the eve of apostacy— God will take care of them— there has been a great deal of bickering abt. the Messrs. Laws Steam Mill— it has been a great benefit to this — it has advanced the benefit of the — it has brought in thousands who would not have come here but as they saw that the Mormons had no horns they have got a good by it— the Messrs. Laws have done a great deal of good & when we can see any thing in the conspiracy it was the rascal who presumed upon them. & I do not believe that the Messrs. Laws would do any thing against me— it was the rascal who did it— he did it & I wod. not believe if he was to swear on a Stack of Bibles as big as Mount Etna— oppression never drove the devil from the heart of any man— it is natural for a man to be lead & not to be driven. put down iniquity by good works— many men speak without any contemplation but when they have a little contemplation it wod. not have been spoken—— cast over the mantle of charity over them to cover their faults— do unto others what you have them to do to you— it is well enough to root out [p. 13]

all conspiracies— do not fear the very God of heaven will take care of you— I want to put out all bad things— let us extend the fostering hand & save all men. I want to save all men— our Savior is competent to save all— he has given, & is able to save all from death & hell— I want a Savior who is great, important, who has all power &c I know a many men who have little bodies but have big souls— we have gathered out all the big souls from the Ends of the Earth— the Gospel picks out all the big souls out of all creation & we will get all the big souls out of all the nations— & we shall have the largest city in the world— as soon as the Gospel catches hold of a big soul it brings them all right up to — Enoch told the people the Spirit of God took him up to an high mount: & saw the deluge &c— & he sd. his heart swelled to take all in but Popery could not take it in. it was too large for them— God Almighty has made men souls according to the Society which he lives in— very few exceptions.— when men come to live with the mormons, their souls swell as if they were going to stride into Eternity & head from world to world— a man who gets so high in the mansions above— a certain. good Sister came to my house & had heard so many stories that it troubled her it was unbelief— I told her she had too much faith— I tell you how may know very thing is true or not— it will trouble you, if you believe— & you had better get something to get rid of it— get humble before God & pray to him to judge it for you before this closes I want to get all the together— we are going to send out those Elders together who know how to preach nothing but the truth— the Elders of Israel
The President having arrived— the choir sung an hymn Elder prayed
The Prophet while I address you on the subject which in the fore pt. of the Conference was contemplated.— as the wind blows very hard it will be hardly possible for me to make you all hear it is of the greatest importance & the most solemn of any that could. occupy our attention. & that is the subj of the dead or the decease of our who was crushed to death in a well— & insomuch as there are a great many in this congregation who live in this & who have lost friend I shall speak in general. & offer you my ideas so far as I have ability & so far as I shall be inspired. by the H S. [Holy Spirit] to dwell on this subject. I want your prayer, faith the inspiration. of Almighty God to say things that are true & shall carry the testimony to your hearts & pray that he may strengthen my lungs— stay the winds— & let the prayer of the Saints to heaven appear— for the prayers of the righteous avail much & I verily believe that your prayers shall be heard before I enter in the investigation. fully of the subjt. that is lying before us I wish to make a few preliminaries in order that you may understand when I come to it [p. 14]

I do not calulate to please your ears with oratory with much leang [learning] but I calculate to edify you with simple truths from Heaven— I wish to go back to the beginning of creation— it is necessary to know the mind decree & ordination. of the great Eloe Elohim beging. at the creation. & it is necessary. for us to have an understanding. of God in the beging. if we start right it is very easy for us to go right all the time but if we start wrong it is hard to get right there are very few who understand rightly the character of God— they do not comprehend any thing that is past or that which is to come & consequently but little more than the brute beast if a man learns know nothing more than to eat, drink, sleep, & does not comprehend any of the designs. of God the Beast comprehends the same thing eats drin sleeps— noes nothing more & how are we to do it by no other. way then the Inspiration of Almighty God I want to go back to the begin & so get you into a more lofty sphere than what the human being generally understands I want to ask this congregation every man woman & child to answer. the question. in their own heart what kind of a being is God I again. repeat. the questn. what kind of a being is God does any man or woman know have any of you seen, him heard him, communed with him, here is the questn. that will peradventure from this time henceforth occupy your attentn.— the Apostle says this is Eternal life to know God & J. C Jesus Christ who he has sent— that is eternal. life if any man enquire what kind of a being is God if he will search deligently his own heart that unless he knows God he has no eternal life— my first object is to find out the character of the true God & if I shod. be the man to comprehend the God & I com: them to your heart let every man & woman henceforth shut their mouths & never say anything agst. the man of God & If I do not do it I have no right to revelation. inspn. if all are pretension to God they will all be as bad off as I am they will all say I ought to be d d damned there is not a man or woman who wod not breath out an anathema on my head & some wod. feel authorized to take away my life— if any man is authd. to take away my life who say I am a false teacher so I shod. have the same right to all false teacher & where wod. be the end of the blood & there is no law in the heart of God that wod. allow any one to interfere with the rights of man every man has a right to be a false as well as a true prophet— if I shew verily that I have the truth of God & shew that [p. 15]

ninety nine of 100. are false prop. it wod. deluge the whole world with blood I want you all to know God to be familiar with him & if I can bring you to him all persecution. agst. against me will cease & let you know that I am his sert for I speak as one havg. authy. & not as a senr. open your ears & eyes all ye Ends of the Earth & hear & I am going to prove it to you with the Bible & I am going to tell you the designs. of God to the human race & why he interferes with the affairs of man God himself who sits enthroned in yonder Heavens is a man like unto one of yourselves who holds this world in its orbit & upholds all things by his power if you were to see him to day you wod. see him a man for Adam was an man like in fashion & image like unto him Adam walkd. talked & comd. with him as one man talks & com: with anor. in order to speak for the consolation. of those who mourn for the loss of their friend it is necy. to understand the character. & being of God for I am going to tell you what sort of a being of God for he was God from the beginning of all Eternity & if I do not refute it— truth is the touchstone they are the simple & first principles of truth to know for a certainty the char. of God that we may conv with him same as a man & God himself the father of us all dwelt on a Earth same as J C [Jesus Christ] himself did & I will shew it from the Bible— I wish I had the trump of an Arch An archangel I cod. tell the story in such a manner that pers: shod. cease for ever— Jesus sd. as the Father. hath power in himself even so hath the Son power to do what the Far. did that ansr. is obvious in a manner to lay down his body & take it up— J— did as my Far. laid down his body & take it up agn. if you dont believe it you dont believe the Bible the Scrip says & I defy all hell all learnd. wisdom & records of hell togr to refute it here then is Eternal life to know the only wise & true God you have got to learn how to be a God yourself & be a King & Priest to God same as all have done by going from a small capy. to anr. from grace to grace until the rest. & sit in everlasting power as they who have gone before & God in the L D. while certn. indivdls. are proclaimg. his name is not trifling with us— how consoling to the mourner when they are cald. to part with a wife mother father dr. relative to know that all Earthly tabernacles shall be dissolved that [p. 16]

they shall be heirs of God & joint. hrs of J. C. to inherit the same powers exaltation. until you ascd. the throne of Etl. power same as those who are gone bef. what J. did I do the things I saw my Far. do before worlds came rolld into existence I saw my Far. work out his K with fear & trembling & I must do the same when I shall give my K to the Far. so that he obtns K rollg. upon K. so that J treads in his tracks as he had gone before it is plain beyond comprehensn. & you thus learn the first prin of the Gospel when you climb a ladder you must begin at the bottom rung until you learn the last prin of the Gospel for it is a great thing to learn Saln. beyond the grave & it is not all to be com in this world I sup I am not alld. to go into investign. but what is contd. in the Bible & I think there is so many wise men who wod. put me to death for treason I shall turn commentator to day— I shall go to the first Hebrew word in the Bible the 1st. sen: In the beginning— Berosheet— In by thru & every thing else Roshed the head when the Inspd. man wrote it he did not put the 1st. pt. to it a man a Jew witht. any authy. thot. it too had to begin to talk about the head of any man— “The Head one of the Gods brought forth the Gods” is the true meang. of the word— if you do not believe it you do not believe the learned man of God— no man can tell you more than I do thus the K God brot. forth the gods in the Head council— I want to bring it to English oh ye lawyers ye doctors I want to let you know that the H G. knows something as well as you do— the Head God called togr. the Gods & set in Grand Council &c when I say a lawyer I mean a lawyer of the Scriptures. I have done so hither to let the lawyers flutter & let every body laugh at them. some learned Dr. mut. take a notr. to say thus & so— & are not to be altd. & I am going to shew you an error I have an old book in the Latin Greek Hebrew & German & I have been readg. the Germ: I find it to be the most correct that I have found & it corresponds the nearest to the revns. that I have given the last 14 yrs it tells about Jachaboa means Jacob— in the English James— & you may talk about James thru all Eternity in the 21 v of 4th Mat: where it gives the test. that it is to Jacob & how can we escape the dn. of hell witht. God reveal to us. Latin says that Jachobus. means Jacob— Hebrew says means Jacob— Greek says Jacob German says Jacob thank God I have got this book & I thank him more for the . I have all the 4 Test. come here ye learned men & read if you can [p. 17]

I shod. not have brot. up this word only to shew that I am right when we beg to learn in this way we beg to learn the only true God & when we find to know how to come to him & he begins to unfold the heavens to us & tell us all abt. it bef our prayers get to his ears now I ask all the learned men who hear me wher. the learned men who are preachg. Saln. say that God created the Heavens & the Earth out of nothing & the reason is that they are unlearned & I know more than all the world put togr. & if the H. G. in me com: more than all the world I will associate with it— what does Bara mean it means to organize same as you wod. organize a Ship— God himself had materials to org the world out of chaos which is Element & in which dwells all the glory— that nothing can destroy they never can have an ending they exist eternally— I have anor. to dwell on & it is impossible for me to say much but to touch upon them— for time will not permit me to say all— so I must come to the resurrection. of the dead— the soul the imn. Spirit oh God man says created in the beging. the very idea lestens man in my idea— I dont bel the doct. hear it all ye Ends of the World for God has told me so I am going to tell of things more noble— we say that God himself is a self existing God, who told you so, how did it get it into your head who told you that man did not exist in like manner— how does it read in the Heb. that God made man & put into it Adams Spirit & so became a living Spirit— the mind of man— the mind of man is as immortal as God himself— hence while I talk to those mourners they are only separated from their bodies for a short period— their Spirits existed with God & now converse one another same as we do— does not this give you satisfactn. I want to reason more on the Spirit of man for I am dwelling on the body of man on the subjt. of the dead— I take my ring from my finger & liken it unto the mind of man the immortal. Sp. bec. it has no beging. suppose you cut it into in two but as the Ld lives there wod. be an end all the fools & wise men from the beging. of creation who say that man had begin— they must have an end & then the doc of annihilitn. wod. be true— but if I am right I mit. with boldness proclaim from the house top that God never had power to create the Sp of man at all— God himself cod. not create himself intelligence is self existent it is a Sp from age to end & there is no creatn abt. it [p. 18]

the first principles of man are self exist with God— that God himself finds himself in the midst of Sp & bec he saw proper to institute laws for those who were in less intelligence that they mit. have one glory upon another in all that knowledge power & glory & so took in hand to save the world of Sp: you say honey is Sweet & so do I. I can also taste the Sp of Eternal life I know it is good & when I tell you— of these things that were given to me by Insp of the H S. you are bound to receive it as sweet & I rej more & more— mans rel. to God I will open your eyes in rel to your dead all things which God of his inf reason has seen fit to reveal to us in our mortal state in regard to our mortal bodies are rev d. to us as if we had not bodies & those revns. which will save our dead will save our bodies— & God reveals them to us in the view of no Eternal dissolution. of the body— hence the awful responsibility that rests upon us for our dead— for all the Spirits must either obey the Gospel or be d—d solemn thot. dreadful thot. is there nothing to be done for those who have gone before us witht. obeyg. the decrees of God wod. to God thou I had 40 days & nights— to tell you all to let you know I am not a faln prophet— what kind of characters are those who can be saved altho their bodies are decaying in the grave— the greatest responsibility that God has laid upon us to seek after our dead— the apostle says they without us cant be perfect— now I am speaking of them I say to you Paul, you cant be perfect witht. us.— those that are gone before & those who came after must be made perfect— & God has made it obligatory to man— God said he shall send Elijah &c I have a declar to make as to the provision. which God made from before the foundn. of the world. what has J. sd. all sins & all blas. every trans: that man may be guilty of there is a Saln. for him or in the world to come— every Sp in the Et: world can be ferreted out & saved unless he has committed. that Sin which cant be remd. to him— that God has wrot. and saln. for all men unless they have comd. a certn. sin a friend who has got a friend in the world can save him unless he has comd. the unpardonable sin & so you can see how far you can be Savior there is no thing that a man can commit the unpardonable sin after the dissn of the body & there is a way possible for escape not parlarly d—d— those that are witht. wisdom until they get exalted to wisdom [p. 19]

a sinner has his own mind & is in his own condemner the torment of the mind of man is as exquisite as a lake burng. with fire & brimstone— I know the Scriptures I understand them— no man can commit the unpardonable sin after the dissn. of the body but they must do it in this world— hence the Saln. of J. C was wrought out for all men to triumph over the devil— for he stood up for a Savior— J. contd. that there wod. be certn. souls that wod. be condemned & the devil sd. he cod. save them all— as the grand council gave in for J. C. so the d l fell & all who put up their heads for him all sin shall be forgiven except the sin agt. the H. G. he has got to say that the Sun does not shine while he sees it he has got to deny J. C. when the heavens are open to him. & from that time they begin to be enenmies like many of the apostates of the — when a man begins to be an enemy he hunts him— for he has the same Sp. that they had who crucd. the Lord of life— the same Sp. that Sin agt. the H. G. I advise all to be careful what you do— stay— do not give way— you may find that some one has laid a snare for you be cautious— await— when you find a Sp. wants bloodshed murder same is not of God but is of the devil out of the abundance of the heart man speaks— the man that tells you words of life is the man that can save you— I warn you agt all evil characters who sin agt. H. G. for there is no redempn. for them in this world nor in the world to come I can enter into the mysteries— I can enter largely into the eternal worlds— for J. sd. In my Fars. mansion there are many mansions &c there is one glory of the moon Sun & Stars &c. we have the reason to have the greatest hope & consoln. for our dead— for we have aided them in the 1st. princ for we have seen them walk in the midst— & sink asleep in the arms of J. & hence is the glory of the Sun— you mourners have occn. to rejoice for your has gone to wait until the resn. & your expn. & hope are far above what man can conceive— for why God has revd. to us— & I am authd. to say by the authy. of the H. G. that you have no occasn. to fear for he is gone to the home of the just— dont mourn dont weep— I know it by the test of the H. G. that is within me— rejoice O Israel— your friends shall triumph gloriously— while their murderers shall welter for years—— I say for the benefit of strangers [p. 20]

I have a Bror. Friends who are gone to a world of Sp— they are absent for a momt.— they are in the Sp. then shall we hail our mor. Fars. Friends & all no fear of mobs— &c but all an Eternity of felicity— mothers you shall have your children for they shall have it— for their debt is paid there is no damnation awaits them for they are in the Spirits— as the child dies so shall it rise from the ded & be living in the burng. of God— it shall be the child as it was bef it died out of your arms children dwell & exercise power in the same form as they laid them down
the of Water witht. the B of Fire & the H G. attg. it are necy he must be born of W. & Sp in order to get into the K of God & in the German text bears me out same as the revn. which I have given for the 14 years— I have the test to put in their teeth that my test has been true all the time You will find it in the declar of John the Bap (reads from the German) John says I bap you with Water but when J comes who has the power he shall admin the bap of F & the H. G. Gt. God now where is all the Sect. world— & if this sect is true they are all dnd as clearly as any anathema ever was— I know the text is true— I call upon all to say I (shouts of I) — how are you going to save them with water— for John sd. his bapm. was nothing witht the bap of J. C. one God Far., Jesus, hope of, our calling, one baptism— all three bap make one I have the truth & I am at the defiance of the world to contradict I have preached Latin Hebrew Greek German & I have fulfilled all I am not so big a fool as many have taken me for— the Germans know that I read the German correct— hear it all ye Ends of the Earth— all ye Sinners Repent Repent turn to God for your reln. wont save you & ye will be dd but I do not say how along— but those who Sin agt. the H. G. cannot be forgiven in this world or in the world to come but they shall die the 2nd. death— but as they concoct scenes of bloodshed in this world so they shall rise to the resurn. which is as the lake of fire & brimstone— some shall rise to the everlasting burning of God & some shall rise to the dn. of their own filthiness— same as the lake of fire & brimstone— I have intd. my remarks to all— to all rich & poor bond & free great & small I have no enmity agst any man— I love you all— I am their best friend & if persons miss their mark it is their own fault— if I reprove a man [p. 21]

& he hate me he is a fool— for I love all men especially these my brethren & sisters— I rejoice in hearing the test of my aged friend— you never knew my heart no man knows my history— I can not do it I shall never undertake— if I had not experienced what I have I should not have known it myself— I never did harm any man since I have been born in the world— my voice is always for peace— I cannot lie down until my work is finished— I never think evil nor think any thing to the harm of my fellow man— & when I am called at the trump & weighed in the balance you will know me then— I add no more God bless you Amen— the Choir sung an hymn at 1/2 p 5— [25 lines blank] [p. 22]

[verso of page 22 blank]

Monday morning
Prayer by — after which choir sung an hymn
Prophet it is just as impossible for me to continue the subject as to raise the dead— my lungs are worn out— I will do so another. day— I want a few words to the you know very well that the Lord. has led this by revelation I have another. revn. a great grand & glorious revn. & this is what I am going to declare— you kno there has been great discussion where is & when the of the is & which I am er to— the whole America is the Land itself North & South itself & is described. by the Prophets that it should be in the centre of the land. the declaration is that as soon as the & Baptismal font is prepared. & so as we can & the Elders of Israel there must be a place prepd for that purpose //— There are provisions made until the work is completed.— to be as Kings & Priests of the most High God but as all to do with the — but there must be an express place built for that purpose & for men to be for their dead for every man who wishes to save their Fathers & Mothers— Brothers Sisters & Friends must go thru the same— Baptism— Anointing Washing & all the protection. of the powers of the same as for themselves— the Elders of Israel shall build Churches unto the Lord & there shall they build Churches unto the Lr..— there shall be a of Zion— it is a glorious procln & I reserved it to the last & desn it to be undestd [understood] that it shall be after the washg. & anointg. here— the place that the Ld. has established.for the Salvation of the dead— there must be a particular place— I verily believe this to be the place— & men who wish to save their dead must come here to be B for their dead— & then may go back again.— & I shall leave my— Brern to enlarge— it is my duty to teach those who err in doctrine— the Spirit is willing. but the flesh is weak— God made Aaron to be their mouthpiece & made me to be their K. & their God— & if you dont like it you must lump it— I have given instruction to in some principles— if he makes a mistake I will tell it
called to order to give prayerful attention. I will read some Scriptures & will make observations by the Spirit of God— it is better for Pres & to make texts— I shall speak to sinners & shall read Obadiah (17v)— “But in Mount Zion shall be deliverance “&c on this Mt. Zion where the house shall be established. there shall come Saviors &c you will be able to see whether. I stick to the text. & understand it [p. 23]

as this idea of & the establishment. among the nations. it is a stumbling block to many & altho men may exclaim they rejoice in the Gospel of Christ we rejoice in faith, repentance for remission. of our sins laying on of hand & the promise of the gifts— & signs following we rejoice in but when you say that Zion shall be estabd. in one place & it is must be estabd. by revelation. & as they must be concentrated in one— but there must be a starting point the question is why is it if a Zion is to be estabd. why is to be built among the Gentiles & they read it shall be called the house of Jacob— before I talk of the Saviors that shall come up here— I shall preach to save Strangers — I say that there shall be a litteral Zion estabd. in a literal manner same as the Zion that is demolished I can bring 500 Scrip to prove it— at the latter part of the 4 ch of Micah the heads teach for hire &c therefore shall Zion be ploughed as a field— when it was plod. as a field— answer. When the victorious Romans laid low the Temple & took captive the Jews. I want now to no know— whether there will be another. Zion— but in the L. D. [Latter Days] it shall come to pass— (if a man can contend with the living God let him enter the lists—) that it shall be at the tops of the mountains & all nations shall flow unto it— & many nations shall come & say & let us go to the mountain. of the Lords. house &c Zion is the starting place— the principles shall come from Zion in the L. D. there is a vast difference from “the last days” & “these last days” it was these last days in the day of Noah— Sodom &c Jerusalem destroyed.—— but in the last days they shall come & “bring their gold & beautify the place— I can bring the testn. [testimony] of Micah & of living witnesses who have seen & handled these things— all the old Scrip— as collateral wit. & have all the living. wit. to witness it & God is bound to raise up— Prophets to say where it begins— many are troubled at the house being called the house of Jacob— Earth hell & all the rest— cannot admit it to be estabd but why call it the hs of Jacob— 48 & 49 ch of Genesis— Jacob when abt. going to his last place called Ephraim & Jacob— J. held the powers of the Pre: [Priesthood] & the H. G. [Holy Ghost] was in him when he spoke it— Joseph brings his two sons Ephraim & Manassah Ep. to the Right hand & Man to the left hand. he crossed his hands & put his right hand on Jacob Ephraim— Joseph says not so— his younger Brother. shall be greater than he for his seed shall come a multitude of nations. & let my name be named [p. 24]

among them— Manassah shall become a great people— but his younger Bror. shall bec: a multitude of nations & let the name of Jacob be named upon them & shall inhabit the midst of the Earth turn to the 49 ch— & blessing confirmed anew— Jos. is a fruitful bough— Isa. says some are to be broken off & cross over the sea— my Fathers. blessed me Jacob— I have wrestled with God & prevailed. for you Ephraim to the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills— in Egypt— the everlastg. hills—— 10 times as much on Ep as Man 33rd. ch of Deut. where Moses was going to give the law he calls the heads & blesses the heads of Ep & Man— & 10— of thousands of Man shall push them together.— the Land where Zion is— if the Scrip are true & God will establiz in the L D. [latter days] Jacob will rejoice David saw that the Salvation. of Israel wod. come out of Zion— 46 Isaiah— 12 & 13— Isa bears testimony to the same— Paul says in reasoning when God was going to graft the Gentiles in— all deliverance & truth shall come out of Zion & all these will turn away the ungodliness— the Sons of Eph will administer Saln.— where is the Land to be estd. as Elisha got the mantle of Elijah so I shall have his now chap 17 close of it— “there shall be a rushing of the nations”— “Oh to the land shadowing with wings” be as a land as a winged Cimball— two broad spread wings this land sends ambassadors— Dr. Adam Clarke says it has baffled the skill of all to find out the land.—— but it is N. & S. America— rushing vessels they go I will intro. one natn. that will whip all the Sectarians. & I will go back to Far. Abraham who went forth & became terrible— in Egypt they were groang. under oppression— God calls on Moses— when in the natl. point of life— was terrible in the beginning. see the plagues of Egypt— cross over dry shod thro the Red Sea when Pharaoh was lost— these messengers. shall go forth from the land overshadowing with wings. the Jews have long been trodden under foot— the house of Jacob is more distinct— & the whole house of Israel— the Jews have meted out— led captive, been spoiled— trodden down— the Sons of Joseph— the Lamanites— a No. [number] of them were made drunk to make a treaty— they are retiring like the broken waves to the far west— but it is only heaping up wrath— there must be a place to start from David says in the 48 Ps. Great. is the Lord Little Zion was destroyed— Great Zion of God in the L. D. Kings will come & tremble for it is beautiful for [p. 25]

sit— in Mt. Zion shall be deliverance— 102 Ps. thou shalt arise & have mercy on Zion for the time to favor her shall come &c now I am going to say something to please the old soldiers— (reads) all Gods servants bear testimony that Jacob is the man— he cod. not find Zion he wod. not sleep until he cod. find out a place for the Lord— we found it in the fields of the wood— the fields of the wood in :— it was beautiful &c & Isa says to be gathered together: wherever. the broad rivers no ship shall go up it— this is the grand center the rallying point— you must flow unto it— by water Saviors shall come up on this Mt. Zion— the eternal. principles of salvation— what are they in the last ch of Luke “thus it behove Christ to die” &c there is an Eternity of words if you read without comment— whenever Gods people preach they preach the same, to begin in Jerusalem— it was Gods Etl. fixed plan, it was not by preaching hell brimstone devil &c they preached J. C. Jesus Christ & the resurrection. for they had seen him— when they heard him— the son [of] man created a human-being— pure— matter & Spirit & these two put togr. made a living soul death was the consequence of sin entering the world— God sent angels to guard the tree of life for fear man should eat & live fore ever in sin. man & all creation were weltering under the curse of an angry god— from the blood of Abel— there was no remission. of sins when 4000 years had rolled J. C. came & took upon him the seed of Abraham all Jerusalem was wrapt in slumber when the angel came to a few poor honest shepherds when a whole legion of Angels shouted Glory in the highest— a child was born & the Son was given— none had entered the chamber of death none ever shouted “Oh death” &c Empires had decamped & dispensations. arose— these habits are for the Saints to live in this Savior fulfilled all the laws of obedience— J. C never could have saved the world without he brot. in a new scheme & that ; because J. C is the door & the way— he laid his glory down & if he got in thro the window he wod. have been a housebreaker— every man who preached anor. Gospel but the Gos of J. C will all be d—d— they the Apostles preached J C & the resn.— here was the 1st. body quickened by the Spirit he became the first fruits of them that slept a Sp has not flesh & bones as you see men have— I am not as the methodists say a hypocrite— for I have a body— Thomas. feel me & handle me & let me eat— the morning rolled away— the angel rolled away the stone broke the seal of the tomb— here is the [p. 26]

glory the resn. flesh & bones will have the resn., the flesh & bones of J. C. was quickened by the Sp. & the Saints will have the same tabernacle when the peopled heard the Gospel they cried out what shall we do? Repent & be every one of you in the name of J for the remission of sins &c &c— it is Gods word— & if any man has an opinion upon it will be d—d Paul says “as many as have been bap” &c Nicodemus marvelled J. sd. “verily verily I say unto thee” &c & a man who says to the contrary is wrapped up in midnight darkness & — now I want to find some thing for a writ of & for the dead— I shall first preach on the prisoner in prison— my friends were all good— what became of all those who died previous to the coming of Christ these doctrines are of God— Peter this generation have very overall knowledge of the things of God— these things were brought thro the revn. of God because God has rolled back the curtain. of ages— Peter 1st. Epis: 3rd ch— & 1st. pt. of 4th. ch— While J. the son of God was entombed in the grave— enshrouded in the prisonhouse of the dead— he was sent to bring liberty to the captive— & unloose the prisoners & the voice of Sn. was echoed by all those habitations of the Sp.— he did not write //— much as Paul he knew 50 times as much— for he had the power to bind— & the servant of God in these last days has the power to bind all this generatn. is to dn. God has always a cause for what he does Peter says for J. C has once suffered. has once been put to death & has entered the domains of the dead for for this cause was the Gospel also preached unto the Sp in prison that they might. be judged. according. to men in the flesh accordg. to what men do for them in the flesh— when the Sp were taken from there is a day in which he will judge them in the bodies— it will raise a glory of the plans of Jehovah & is the light that was brot. forth by this much injd. man— whom the world is not worthy of every man must be born by water fire & the H G. in the 24th. Isa. 2nd. Par Kings & Queens Rich & poor high & low all for them are interested in it it is for the scourging. of the nations— they shall go, & be visited in the future &c many shall go there— it shall be sd. this is our God we have waited for him in this mount shall the house of the Lord rest &c &c millions shall be shut up in prison while the Saints shall possess the Kingdom— in the 15 Cor: Paul says “moreover Brethren &c & after that Joseph & saw him in the heavens and that he yet lives [p. 27]

“else what shall they do which are for the dead if the dead rise not at all” &c it is strong meat— you must have it for it is the L D every principle of God & Salvn. which were from before the beging. of the world— why was Paul bap for his Far. & Mor. & why are you bap for your Far. & Mor.— what is the use of pag. for them if they are not benefitted by it— it is a plan that was preached by Paul. & which is brot. forth by revn. by Jos in the last days— & the man that lifts his voice agt. this doct. is worse than Nicodemus— I now want the The L D S [latter-day saints] know what a H. C means— I have laid down our eternal fixed law of the K of God & many have died without. hearg obeyg. & knowg. this fixed law— & accordg. to the law of the land a man involved in debt is thrown in prison— & is taken by the judgment on the exn. is shut-up in prison until he has paid the utmost farthing here are 2 men one a liar swindler knave false bror. deceiver— &c he has keenness enough to avoid detection.— is seized by exn.— judgt. passed agt. him & is shut up in prison— another. lives in the same town & is a man of God piety— faithful— & Thro some embarrassment. is involved in debt is seized under the same law he pleads his goodness ignorance & honesty altho the Heavens weep he is put in the same prison with the bad man— one was a bad man & wod. not obey the Gospel the other. a poor man & obeyed all he knew— he cant work— he is gettg worse & worse— my eyes have witd. them no hope of recovery— he has been taken from a town many miles off— anr. man searches the laws & finds an H. C. what the or. man cannot do for himself— he pays the money & gets the receipt of it in the presence of witnesses— here are 3 or 4 wit: gets it recorded— & goes in his Chariot & goes to the prison & looses the prisoner— & he falls on his bosom & returns thanks for his liberty. & freedom— all this is no dream poor blind ignorant & ungodly lawgivers who devise a plan to save the body— & yet they deny the Eternal God of devising a plan for redeemg. the Sp from the prisoner who has died in a anr. clime there is an eternal fixed law of God— the Savior, & the Apostles preached to the Sp in prison— the Savior Peter James Paul went right after the Savior to preach to the Sp in prison— we are now in the L D let P. & the apos & their dead go— on the tops of the mountains— beautiful for sitn. & the place which God had his eye on— on Mt. Zion shall come [p. 28]

up Saviors— if any man will leave himself in the hands of the Potter he will come up a good vessel— the righteous are as bold as lions— these Saviors the sons of Jacob— the Sp of the living God will bear witness to it where is Ephraim gone to— Glory to God for the old Bible Hosea— “& the Children of Israel shall abide many days without a King” &c Oh ye sons of Jacob You have got in among the Gentile Gods without bodies parts or passions—— Eph shall be desolate in the day of rebuke— Eph shall wander thro the wilderness— shall become the multitude of nations— God placed more blessings on the head of Eph than upon the whole 12 natns. & Eph overthrew the whole— how can Eph mix themselves among the people just the same as the L D. S can mix among the people of — behold the record of Joseph which is the Stick & Record of Eph— which is the record of Joseph— the seed of Eph or Jacob is married from one nation to nation so that the seed of Eph shod be ready to push the people togr. when this record came forth— strangers have destroyed the strength of Eph has been spoiled— & he knew not that the blood of Jacob was in— God has had his eye upon a few families who have not mixed their blood— & when Eph stayed trembling he exalted himself in Israel— shall God choose Eph for the Saviors in the L D— I do not care how many honest men are before me because they must embrace the Bible or be in Hell— when God chooses Eph he will have Jacob & Jacob will build the house of the Lord in Zion Jer 31 ch and I will be the God of all the families in Israel for “thus saith the Lord” &c
In conclusion God has commenced this & Saviors shall come up on this Zion & God has given the to Eph— & they shall come & fall down in mt. Zion & shall be crowned by my servts. the sons of Ephraim in whose hands is given power to bind in Earth & heaven— loose on Earth & shall be loosed in Heaven— every man that hears the fulness of the Gospel & will not be born of water & of the Spirit— I have no promise to them that they shall hear it in the world of Spirits— today if you will hear his voice harden not your hearts— Procrastination is the thief of time & has ruined— many— empires— the damning sin of unbelief has swept millions from the earth— & their Sp went forth into the world of Sp ask them the reason & they will say the damning sin of unbelief— closed at 5 min to 1. —preached 3 hours — the choir sung a hymn [p. 29]

[verso of page 29 blank]