Discourse, 7 April 1844, as Reported by George Laub

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-7-april-1844-as-reported-by-george-laub/1
Date: April 7, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of George Laub

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 7 Apr. 1844]. Featured version inscribed [after 1 Jan. 1845] in George Laub, Reminiscences and Journal, pp. 15–19; handwriting of ; CHL.
, “George Laubs Book 1845,” Reminiscences and Journal, Jan. 1845–Apr. 1857; handwriting of ; 356 pages; CHL. Includes map of a lot in .
Book measuring 6¼ × 4 × 1 inches (16 × 10 × 3 cm) with 182 leaves, including paste­downs on the inside of the front and back covers, measuring 6 × 3¾ inches (15 × 10 cm). The book is bound in red leather. The front cover includes ’s inscription, “George Laubs Book 1845”, along with an archival sticker. On the front pastedown, Laub wrote that he began his record on 1 January 1845. Entries are made in black, blue, and purple ink. There are redactions in graphite as well as use marks in graphite and blue pencil. The book has undergone conservation.
The volume presumably remained in Laub’s custody and was passed down among his descendants. The document’s custodial history between the late nineteenth century and late twentieth century is unknown. In 1988 it was donated to the Church Historical Department (now CHL).

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 7 Apr. 1844, as Reported by Thomas Bullock.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Concerning Spirits first of all or in the begining the great Eloheam in the Hebrew meaning the god of all gods called a grand counsil and counsiled to form this planet on which we do now dwell they spake and Earth from cayus [chaos] sprang by their workmanship. cayus being matery [matter?] Element they saw till time should be no more and they spoke concerning Redemption of this world and formed Limited sircumstances concerning the redemption Jesus Christ being the greater Light or of more inteligence for he loved Rituousness and hated inequity [p. 15]

he being the Elder Brother presented himself for to come and redeem this world as it was his right by by inherant. he stated he could save all those who did not sin against the Holy ghost and they would obey the code of laws that was given But their sircumstance were that all who would sin aganst the holy ghost should have noe forgiveness neither in this world or in the world to come for they had strove against Light and knowledg after they had tasted of the good things of the world to come. they should not have any forgiveness in the world to come Because they had a knowledg of the things of the world to come and ware not willing to abide of the laws of the world to come therefore they can have noe forgiveness their But must be most miserable of all and never can be renewed again (Refered to 6 chapter of Hebrews.) But satan or lucifer being the Next heir and had alotted to him great power and authority Even Prince and power of the air spake Emediately and boasted of himself and saying send me I can save all and sinned against the holy ghost because he accused his brethren and was hurled from [p. 16]

the counsil for striving to break the Law Emediatly and there was a warfare with satan and the gods and they hurld satan out of his place and all them that would not keep the sayings of the council. But he himself being one of the councilers would not keep the first Estate for he was one of the sons of perdition and concequently all the sons of perdition became devils &
How came spirits why they are and ware self Existing as all Eternity & our spirits are as Eternal as the very god is himself & that we choose tabernacles for ourselvs that we might be Exalted Equal with god himself & therefore Jesus Christ spake in this maner I do as my father before me did. well what did the father doo. why he went and took a body and went to redeem a world in the flesh and had power to lay down his life and to take up again & this is the way we become Eirs with god and Joint Eirs with Jesus Christ But those who die without the obediance of the gospel here will have to obey it in the world of spirits for so long as they do not obey they will be miserable and as if they ware in torment of fire and Brimstone thus is the signifycation of torment [p. 17]

and as there are many mantions in my fathers house or in other words many worlds in my fathers world. I will goe and prepare a place for you that where I am ye may also come for we are to goe from glory to glory and as one is raised to a higher so the next under him may take his degree and so to take the Exaltation through the regular chanel and when we get to where Jesus is he will be Just as far ahed of us again in Exaltation & thus as one star differs from another so does one glory differ from another & our bodies are in like fashion as hass himself and Jesus Christ Likewise. & But says the English Translation. in the begining god Created all things out of nothing But there was never anything yet that was made of nothing. shame to such logic. the word in the hebrew is thus. when the gods Counciled together they roled this Earth in Existance & this is the theme of the word Begining & the word hell signifyes Prison of spirits. But the murders are as if they ware in a burning place as if it ware fire and Brimstone [p. 18]

this is the signifycation of hell Burning with fire and Brimstone and all these that are not adopted into the kingdom By are in some degree punished according to their works for their contience are gnawing them because they know not what will become of them till some one in the flesh till some one procksumats [proximates] for them and pays the utmost farthing for them they may live in the spirit according to what men do for them in the flesh thus are they to live according to god in the spirit for what men do for them in the flesh or Else why are we Baptised for the dead if the dead rise not at all for if we are planted to gather in the Likeness of his death and buerial then shall we rise again in the likeness of his resurection & Bueried in baptism put under the watter in the liquid grave & thus do we become saviours on mount Zion. [p. 19]