Discourse, 11 April 1844–A

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-11-april-1844-a/1
Date: April 11, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of William Clayton

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 11 Apr. 1844]. Featured version inscribed [between ca. Aug. 1844 and ca. Feb. 1845] in Council of Fifty, “Record,” pp. [103]–[108]; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Council of Fifty, “Record.”

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

In an 11 April 1844 meeting of the held in , Illinois, JS gave a discourse on the role of revelation in a theocracy. The Council of Fifty met that day in the newly dedicated . The first of two sessions held that day occurred from nine o’clock in the morning to one o’clock in the afternoon. During the morning session, the committee charged with drafting a constitution for the Council of Fifty reported on its lack of progress in producing the assigned document. Committee member explained that the committee—which also included , , and —had been unable to meet because of “public engagements” during the ’s April . After the council approved a motion to give the committee more time, Phelps stated that “the document in progress was the most important ever undertaken by any committee” and motioned that JS be added to the committee. Richards seconded the motion, and JS made the following remarks.
In his address, JS declared that he would not join any committees but would review committee members’ activities independently and seek revelation on their behalf. JS explained that a theocracy required council members to exercise their collective wisdom in decision making and align themselves with the directions and revelations given. Council members were hopeful that the best elements of a democracy could be paired with a righteous theocracy to create a theodemocracy that would protect religious minority rights, include other American religious groups, and help prepare for the second coming of Jesus Christ. JS also admonished council members to study geography, languages, and government.
recorded JS’s discourse as part of the minutes he kept for council meetings. He presumably wrote the original minutes on loose sheets of paper. These original minutes are not extant. Before his death, JS instructed Clayton to destroy or safely secure the Council of Fifty’s records. Clayton opted to bury the records, but he dug them up after JS’s death and copied them in August and September 1844 and in February 1845. It was presumably during this period that Clayton copied JS’s first 11 April discourse into a small bound volume that he titled “Record of the Council of Fifty or Kingdom of God.” The copied version is featured here.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

J. Smith arose and said that the committee were first appointed to bring forth all the intelligence they could, and when their productions were presented to him he could correct the [p. [103]]

errors and fill the interstices where it was lacking. He had considered that a Theocracy consisted in our exercising all the intelligence of the council, and bringing forth all the light which dwells in the breast of every man, and then let God approve of the document & receiveing the sanction of the council it becomes a law. Theocracy as he understands it is, for the people to get the voice of God and then acknowledge it, and see it executed. It is necessary for the council to exhaust their wisdom, and except they do they will never know but they are as wise as God himself, and ambitious men will, like Lucifer think they are as wise as God and will try to lift themselves up and put their foot [p. [104]]

on the necks of others. There has always been some man to put himself forward and say I am the great I &c. I want the council to exert all their wisdom in this thing, and when they see that they cannot get a perfect law themselves, and I can, then, they will see from whence wisdom flows. I know I can get the voice of God on the subject. Vox populi, Vox Dei. The voice of the people assenting to the voice of God. There never has been a man in this age who could tell the people what the true principles of liberty was. Washington did not do it. I dont want to be ranked with that committee I am a committee of myself, and cannot mingle with any committee in such [p. [105]]

matters. The station which I hold is an independant one and ought not to be mingled with any thing else. Let the Committee get all the droppings they can from the presence of God and bring it to me, and if it needs correction or enlargement I am ready to give it. The principles by which the world can be governed is the principle of two or three being united. Faith cannot exist without a concentration of two or three. The sun, moon and planets roll on that principle. If God the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost were to disagree, the worlds would clash together in an instant. He referred to and his farming & said God would prosper him because he gets [p. [106]]

his mind right. When I get any thing from God I shall be alone. I understand the principles of liberty we want. I have had the instructions It is necessary that this council should abide by their instructions. From henceforth let it be understood that I shall not associate with any committee I want every man to get knowledge, search the laws of nations and get all the information they can. There can be no exceptions taken to any thing that any man can say in this council. I dont want any man ever to assent to any thing in this council and then find fault with it. Dont decide in favor of any thing untill you know it. Every man ought to study Geography, [p. [107]]

Governments and languages, so that he may be able to go forth to any nation and before any multitude with eloquence [p. [108]]