Discourse, 7 March 1844–B, as Reported by Willard Richards

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-7-march-1844-b-as-reported-by-willard-richards/1
Date: March 7, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of Willard...

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 7 Mar. 1844]. Featured version inscribed [ca. 7 Mar. 1844] in JS, Journal, 1842–1844, bk. 4, pp. [22]–[25]; handwriting of ; JS Collection, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, 1842–1844.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 7 March 1844, JS delivered a discourse in , Illinois, on keeping records of donations for the construction of the , on his presidential campaign, and on the prospect of the annexing the . It was the second of two discourses he gave at a meeting held that day at the temple construction site and attended by “six or eight thousand saints.” Several other members spoke during the meeting, and JS’s second discourse was the concluding sermon.
JS began his second discourse by reminding the Latter-day Saints of the proper procedures for donating property for the and explaining that those who donated to the building’s construction through the appropriate channels would be the first to participate in upon its completion. He then spoke regarding his presidential campaign, stating that his candidacy for the presidency of the was less important to him than his role as the of the church. Nevertheless, he defended his campaign as necessary for the protection of the Saints and their civil rights.
At the end of his sermon, JS addressed two of the most controversial issues in American politics at that time: the expansion of slavery and the proposed annexation of by the . In the 1820s, thousands of slaveholders started to move from the southern United States to Texas, which was still part of . After these immigrants and other Texas residents rebelled and formed the independent Republic of Texas in 1836, many of the American immigrants called for their native country to annex the new republic. However, because the annexation of Texas would facilitate the expansion of slavery in the United States, many Americans in the northern states opposed legislation that would bring Texas into the union. In addition, Americans on both sides of the slavery debate, including JS, feared that if the United States did not acquire Texas, then Great Britain might do so, or would at least wield influence in the republic. They believed that such a scenario portended a threat to American preeminence in North America. In February 1844, United States secretary of state Abel Upshur worked with Texas officials toward negotiating a peaceful annexation.
In his published political positions, JS had stated that should be welcomed into the union if the republic formally requested annexation. JS had also described his plan to end slavery through manumission but had not stated whether he believed that those freed from slavery should be integrated into American society, as advocated by antislavery radicals such as William Lloyd Garrison and Frederick Douglass, or relocated to another country, as proposed by antislavery moderates like and the American Colonization Society. In this discourse, JS suggested the possibility of relocating formerly enslaved persons to Texas and then to , where he believed there was less racial discrimination.
and both took notes on the discourse. Richards recorded the sermon in JS’s journal, and Woodruff recorded it in his own journal. Both accounts of the discourse are featured here.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Joseph— said in relation to those who give property on the . be careful into whose hands it come into that it may be entered into the books. that those whose names are found in the church book shall have the first claim. in that house.— I intend to keep the door at dedication myself: & not a man [p. [22]]

shall pass who had not paid his bonus
I do not care 1/2 so much about the Presidential election as I do the office I have got we have. as good a right to make a political party to gain power to defend ourselves. as for demagogues to make use of our religin to get power to destroy ourselves.— we will whip the mob by getting up a presidnt.
when I look into the Eastern papers & see how popular I am I am [a]fraid I shall be presidnt.—
on the annxatin [annexation] of .—— some object— the anti-Mormns— are good fellows— I say it in anticipation they will repent [p. [23]]

object to on account of slavery.— Tis the very reason why she should be received.——
. says [“]gentlmn if you refuse to receiv us we must go to the British” & Indians & they will use us up—
British officers running all over to pick a quarrel with us.— more honorable for us to receve them. & set the negroes free & use the ngoes [Negroes] & indians— agint [against] our foes.
dont let go lest Our Mother & the daughtrs of the land. will laugh us [p. [24]]

in the teeth.— and if these things are not so— god never spoke by any prophet since the world began.—
I. have been [3 lines blank]
south hold the balance of power &c— by annexing .— I can do away this evil— liberate 2 or 3 states. & if that was not sufficient. call in ——
Send the negroes to . from to — where all colors are alike.— [p. [25]]