Minutes and Discourse, 29 January 1844

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/minutes-and-discourse-29-january-1844/1
Date: January 29, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting...

Minutes, and JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 29 Jan. 1844. Featured version inscribed [ca. 29 Jan. 1844] in JS, Journal, 1842–1844, bk. 3, p. [248]; handwriting of ; JS Collection, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for JS, Journal, 1842–1844.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 29 January 1844, JS attended and spoke at a meeting in his in , Illinois, about the 1844 presidential election and his potential candidacy for president of the . In early November 1843, JS wrote to five men expected to run for president in 1844: , , , Richard M. Johnson, and . Referencing the persecution the had experienced in during the 1830s and the corresponding inaction of the United States government, JS asked each candidate, “What will be your rule of action relative to us as a people, should fortune favor your ascension to the chief magistracy?” The letters implied that church members throughout the country would vote for the candidate willing to commit the federal government to the defense of the Saints’ civil rights. Only Clay, Cass, and Calhoun replied to JS. Clay was noncommittal in his response, and Cass and Calhoun each stated that they believed the federal government could not involve itself in the matter. In a public letter to Calhoun written in early January 1844, JS expressed his frustration with the philosophy of states’ rights that Calhoun and Cass used to justify federal inaction. Nearing the end of the month, JS had not heard from Johnson or Van Buren and appears to have acknowledged that none of the candidates was willing to commit to help the Saints.
On 29 January, at ten o’clock in the morning, JS met in his office in the with members of the and a few others—, who was church and a member of the ; , the city marshal; , JS’s private clerk; and possibly others—and discussed the 1844 presidential election. It is unclear if this was an official meeting of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, as it is not mentioned in that body’s minutes. However, the language Clayton used to describe the meeting in his own journal suggests that it was.
JS and the assembled leaders apparently met under the assumption that none of the presidential candidates would commit to implementing federal policies that would ensure religious freedom for the church and its members. Accordingly, apostle moved that the Saints have electors unaffiliated with either of the major political parties and that JS be their candidate. JS agreed to run for president and spoke on the establishment and operation of his campaign, including a plan to send church members to canvass the entire country delivering stump speeches and holding political conventions. In listing a few possibilities for such electioneering missions, he suggested that church members be sent to their native states and places where they already had strong social connections. JS also pledged that as president he would protect the rights of the people. The meeting apparently concluded by midafternoon, if not earlier.
, who served as the clerk for the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as well as a scribe for JS, recorded the proceedings of the meeting, including JS’s discourse, in JS’s journal.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Monday January 29. 1844
at 10 A M. The met at the mayors . Joseph & — . . . Moved by and voted unanimously— that we have— indepindent electors— and that Joseph Smith be a candidate for the next presidiny [presidency]— and that we use all honorable means to secure his election— Joseph said to accomplish this we must send every man in the who could speak— throughout the land to electioneer. stump speech.— Mormon religion.— election.— Laws &c &c— — must go. to . to — to — After the April we will have general conferncs all over the nation & I will attend them. Tell the people we have had whig & democrats presidnts long enough we want a Presedint of the If I ever get in the presedental [presidential] chair— I will protect the people in their rights & liberties, I will not electioneer for myself— . . & must go.— the Whigs are striving for a king under the garb of Democracy.— There is oretory enough in the to carry me into the presdntial presidential chair the first slide [p. [248]]