Discourse, 8 April 1844, as Reported by Thomas Bullock

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-8-april-1844-as-reported-by-thomas-bullock/1
Date: April 8, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of Thomas Bullock

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 8 Apr. 1844]. Featured version inscribed [ca. 8 Apr. 1844] in Thomas Bullock, Minutes, 6–9 Apr. 1844, p. 23; handwriting of ; Historian’s Office, General Church Minutes, CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Minutes and Discourses, 6–8 Apr. 1844, as Reported by Thomas Bullock.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

On 8 April 1844, the third day of the ’s April , JS delivered a discourse in , Illinois, on the location of , the role of the Nauvoo , and the of the Latter-day Saints. The conference meeting on 8 April was held in a that lay about a quarter mile east of the unfinished temple. On 6 April, at the opening of the conference, JS complained of the “weakness of his lungs,” and he delayed speaking at length until 7 April, when he addressed the Saints for two hours and fifteen minutes. After JS spoke for so long to a large group in the open air, his lungs were “worn out,” and he could only give a shorter discourse on the morning of 8 April. recorded JS bringing the meeting to order at ten o’clock in the morning, after which read 1 Corinthians 15 and said a prayer. JS then preached until 10:40, meaning that his discourse lasted less than forty minutes.
JS had initially meant to continue his 7 April sermon, which focused on the nature of God and humankind. His request to have 1 Corinthians 15 read as a preliminary to his 8 April discourse suggests that he intended to speak on the resurrection of the dead. He decided, however, to forgo the topic, promising to take it up on another day. Instead, he made a “proclamation” to the church’s that modified the Latter-day Saint practice of gathering. Previously, JS had instructed the Saints to gather in either , Illinois, or , Iowa Territory. outside of these counties had been discontinued in 1841, although of the church continued to function in various parts of the . Later, in April 1843, JS counseled the Saints to leave and settle in . In this proclamation, JS explained that all of North and South America constituted the land of Zion. He also taught that the was the necessary place for the Saints to perform certain sacred . After the elders received these ordinances, they were then to build congregations and establish stakes wherever people received the gospel. Converts, moreover, were not asked to relocate to Nauvoo but could come to receive their temple ordinances and then return to their homes. JS stated that this proclamation was “the greatest ever made,” while later called these pronouncements “a perfect sweepstakes” and a “perfect knock down to the d——ls kingdom.” Once JS concluded, he requested that speak, having previously instructed him on what he should preach. Adams’s remarks focused on the literal establishment of Zion and the salvation of the dead through vicarious ordinances.
Church members , , , and attempted to capture the proceedings of the April conference. Bullock, a member of JS’s office staff, wrote in his journal that he was specifically attending the conference as a reporter. Clayton, who was JS’s private clerk, and Richards, who was JS’s “private se[c]retary & historian,” often acted as scribes for JS, and they may have also been assigned to record the proceedings. Woodruff, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, also took notes from the conference in his journal. The conference minutes taken by all four men included notes on JS’s 8 April discourse. Unlike JS’s other discourses from the April conference, however, his 8 April remarks were not published in the Times and Seasons. The four accounts of JS’s 8 April discourse, featured here, are remarkably similar to one another, being more or less parallel on a sentence-by-sentence level.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

it is just as impossible for me to continue the subject as to raise the dead— my lungs are worn out— I will do so another. day— I want a few words to the you know very well that the Lord. has led this by revelation I have another. revn. a great grand & glorious revn. & this is what I am going to declare— you kno there has been great discussion. where is & when the of the D is & which I am eager to— the whole America is the Land itself North & South itself & is described. by the Prophets that it should. be in the centre of the land. the declaration is that as soon as the & Baptismal font is prepared. & so as we can & the Elders of Israel there must be a place prepd for that purpose //— There are provisions made until the work is completed.— to be as Kings & Priests of the most High God but as all to do with the — but there must be an express place built for that purpose & for men to be for their dead for every man who wishes to save their Father & Mother— Brothers Sisters & Friends must go thru the same— Baptism— Anointing Washing & all the protection. of the powers of the same as for themselves— the Elders of Israel shall build Churches unto the Ld. & there shall they build Churches unto the Lr. Lord— there shall be a of Zion— it is a glorious proclamation. & I reserved it to the last & design. it to be undestd. understood that it shall be after the washd. & anointg. here— the place that the Ld. has established. for the Salvation. of the dead— there must be a particular place— I verily believe this to be the place— & men who wish to save their dead must come here to be B for their dead— & then may go back again.— & I shall leave my Brethren to enlarge— it is my duty to teach those who err in doctrine— the Spirit is willing. but the flesh is weak— God made Aaron to be their mouthpiece & made me to be their K. & their God— & if you dont like it you must lump it— I have given instruction to in some principles— if he makes a mistake I will tell it [p. 23]