Discourse, 7 April 1844, as Reported by Samuel W. Richards

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-7-april-1844-as-reported-by-samuel-w-richards/1
Date: April 7, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of Samuel W. Richards

JS, Discourse, [, Hancock Co., IL, 7 Apr. 1844]. Featured version inscribed [after Apr. 1845] in Samuel W. Richards, Notebook, ca. 1844–1845, p. [90]; handwriting of Samuel W. Richards; Samuel W. Richards, Papers, CHL.
Samuel W. Richards, Notebook, ca. 1844–1845; handwriting of Samuel W. Richards; 104 pages; CHL. Includes shorthand.
Book measuring 5⅛ × 3⅝ × ½ inches (13 × 9 × 1 cm) with fifty-two leaves, including pastedowns on the inside of the front and back covers and a flyleaf in the front of the vol­ume, measuring 4⅞ × 3⅜ inches (12 × 9 cm). Each page is ruled with fifteen blue lines and has red lines marking horizontal and vertical margins. The book is bound in black leather. The front cover has the word “MEMORANDUM” embossed in golden letters with a pattern surrounding it. Entries are made in either black or blue ink with some notations in graphite. Samuel W. Richards used the volume to record lists of Bible passages, a chronology, accounts of discourses or teachings, and recipes for red ink and various medicines. The text block is separating from the cover.
The book apparently remained in the possession of Richards’s family after his death. In 1959 Samuel W. Richards’s grandson Alton F. Richards transferred the notebook to the Church Historical Department (now CHL).

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 7 Apr. 1844, as Reported by Thomas Bullock.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

Josephs Sayings.
Must know the only living and true God and Jesus Christ, to have eternal life, God: a man like one of us, even like Adam. Not God from all Eternity, Once on a planet with flesh and blood, like Christ. As the father hath life in himself &C,
To know God learn to become God’s. Exalted by the addition of subjects to his family, or kingdom.
Create (Burrau, in Hebrew,) which means organize, from, Chaos, or Element, All things revealed to us as though we had no bodies. for the exaltation of our Spirits, hence our bodies being connected, cannot commit the unpardonable sin after the disolution of the body. [p. [90]]