Discourse, 12 May 1844, as Reported by George Laub

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-12-may-1844-as-reported-by-george-laub/1
Date: May 12, 1844
Handwriting: Handwriting of George Laub

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, [12 May 1844]. Featured version inscribed [ca. 1845] in George Laub, Reminiscences and Journal, pp. 19–23; handwriting of ; CHL. For more complete source information, see the source note for Discourse, 7 Apr. 1844, as Reported by George Laub.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 12 May 1844, as Reported by Thomas Bullock.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

By Joseph Smith Prophet Concerning gods Witness
14 chapter of revelations of John 6–7 verses & the Original translation Reads thus and I will send you a nother witness and he shall preach this gospel to all nations [p. 19]

to the Ends of the world. But woe to that man or woman who shall lift up his or their hands against gods witness for they are rasing their arm against the power of god and they will be cursed. But in these times in the last days there will many fals Prophets arise and fals teachers and deceave many they shall have many followers by their deceit. they strive to get power and by their pernitious ways lead off many— For Brother Joseph Smith was chosen for the Last or seventh Despensation the time the grand council set in heaven to organise this world Joseph was chosen for the Last and greatest Prophet to Lay the foundation of gods work therefore the Jews asked John the Baptist if he was Elias or Jesus or that great prophet that was to come—— and the devil or lucifer also organised his kingdom in oposit to overthrow gods and he Became a sun son of perdition
Concerning the kingdom
In my fathers kingdom are many kingdoms or worlds or in my fathers house are many mantions I will goe to prepare a place for you [p. 20]

and according to your works you shall be rewarded these who will not Obey the gospel will goe to the world of spirits there to stay till they have paid the utmost farthing or till some person pays their depts debts they owe Now all those who die in the faith goe to the Prison of spirits to preach to the dead in body but they are alive in spirit and those spirits preach to the spirits that they may live according to god in the Spirit and men do minister for the flesh and angels bare the glad tidings to the spirits and they are made hapy by these means. Therefore those who are for their dead are the Saviours on mount Zion & they must receave their and their for their dead the same as for themselves till they are connected to the ones in the despensation before us and trace their leniage to connect the again—— and if any man preaches any other gospel then this and the baptism Baptism for the remision of sins and the for the Let him be anathamised or accursed the curse of god shall be upon him or them [p. 21]

Concerning Resurection
Flesh and Blood cannot inherit the kingdom of god or the kingdom that god inhabits But the flesh without the blood and the spirit of god flowing in the veins in the stead of the blood for blood is the part of the body that causes corruption therefore we must be changd in the twinkling of an Eye or have to lay down these tabernacles and leave the blood vanish away therefore Jesus Christ left his blood to atone for the sins of the world that he might asend into the presents of the father for god dwels in flaming flames and he is a consuming fire he will consume all that is uncleen and unholy and we could not abide his presents unless pure spirits in us. for the Blood is the corruptible part of the tabernacles—— for the resurection of the dead is devised to take away coruption and make man perfect or in the glory which he was created for the body is sowen in coruption and raised in Incoruption then we will be able to goe in the presents of god [p. 22]

Brother Joseph Smith was sent to remind the world of sin of rituousness and of a judgment that was to come
But this is that of what John says in his 14th. chapter but he says of sin of rituousne righteousness and of a judgment to come to reprove the world. this is rong Translated for to remind is correct way
Concerning those who here the gospel
Now concerning these who know the gospel and do not obey But fight against it will be shut up in prison under condemnation and shall not be visited till many days hence. Isaiah 24 ch. then some person has to redeem them By making a forfit of some payment for them. & [p. 23]