Discourse, 7 March 1844–A, as Reported by Charles A. Foster

═══ SOURCE NOTE ═══
Source: The Joseph Smith Papers
URL: https://www.josephsmithpapers.org/paper-summary/discourse-7-march-1844-a-as-reported-by-charles-a-foster/1
Date: March 7, 1844
Handwriting: No handwriting information was found.

JS, Discourse, , Hancock Co., IL, 7 Mar. 1844. Featured version published in “Important from Nauvoo,” Warsaw Signal, 25 Apr. 1844, New Series, no. 11, [3]. For more complete source information, see the source note for Letter from Editor, ca. 21 Feb. 1844.

═══ HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ═══

See Historical Introduction to Discourse, 7 Mar. 1844–A, as Reported by Willard Richards.

═══ DISCOURSE TEXT ═══

the object of the meeting was, to obtain the mind of the people in relation to the enforcing of certain ordinances, the officers having found difficulty in discharging their duties, by the interference of certain individuals, who were eternally grumbling and growling, and whom it was impossible for the Devil himself to please. He then pounced upon some of our prominent and most worthy citizens, in his most approved style, denouncing and damning, by wholesale, Lawyers, Doctors, Merchants, and others, who had had the audacity to question his authority, or the purity of his motives and intentions. After slanging different ones upon the same matters of complaint, he proceeded to inform the people that there were certain Croakers and Spies amongst them, of whom they might well be cautious, He had seen an article in the “New York Tribune,” purporting to have been written here, giving an exaggerated account of the state of things in this . The writer had ventured to express an opinion relative to the professed talents of the great “MORMON PROPHET!”—that there was a system of duping afloat, based upon his pretended revelations—that monies collected for the building of the , was appropriated to private purposes, &c. This was sufficient to enrage his holiness; and he ranted and bellowed away at a strange rate upon the falsity of the statements—appealing to his own honesty and virtue, as usual, and to the books and records for proofs of his innocence of the charges in question. [p. [3]]